
Peruvian soldiers, prisoners and school-children now eat papapan - a bread made from boiled potatoes.  
Q. Wheat has become short in supply because of continued bad weather and a greater demand for bread by an ever growing world population.
R. The government is promoting this new type of bread product in the wake of a severe shortage of wheat.
S. This greater demand for wheat has caused prices to sky-rocket, severely hurting the world's poor.
T. UN economist John Smith believes that all of this should be a wake-up call: "We need to begin planting much more wheat!"
U. In Nigeria, for example, the price of a loaf of wheat bread has risen from .75 to 1.00.
21354

Tiger attacks, monkey escapes, animal deaths - news like this from zoos has led to an outcry from critics.
Q. Robert Humbertoe disagrees and counters this argument by saying, "Enlightened zoos are good places for animals, and they are getting better."
R. Humbertoe points out that input from scientists has allowed zoos to create more naturalistic enclosures for the animals where they can act in healthful and natural ways.
S. One result of the new, enlightened and naturalistic type of zoo is that animals tend to jump farther, climb higher and run faster because of pure joy.
T. "If we can't phase them out, zoos need higher standards; and some animals should not be in captivity in the first place."
U. "I think all zoos should be phased out," says Pete Bark, an animal rights advocate.
34521

It is believed that the majority of the pig breeds we now know are descended from the Eurasian Wild Boar (Sus scrofa).
Q. Pigs have now, in fact, become vital to the economy in all parts of the world - for example, there exists a "pig culture" in New Guinea as strong and complex as any African culture based on cattle.
R. After this point in space and time, the pig spread across Asia, Europe and Africa.
S. Figurines, as well as bones, dating to the sixth and seventh millennia BC have been found at sites in the Middle East.
T. Archaeological evidence from the Middle East indicates domestication of the pig occurred as early as 9,000 years ago, with some evidence for domestication even earlier in China.
U. Pigs were also a popular subject for statuettes in ancient Persia following the sixth and seventh millennia.
54213

Dionysus, also commonly known by his Roman name Bacchus, appears to be a god who has two distinct origins.
Q. On the other hand, Dionysus also represents the outstanding features of mystery religions, such as those practiced at Eleusis
R. Therefore, scholars have suspected that the god known as Dionysus is in fact a fusion of a local Greek nature god, and another more potent god imported rather late in Greek pre-history from Phrygia (the central area of modern day Turkey) or Thrace
S. On the one hand, Dionysus was the god of wine, agriculture, and fertility of nature, who is also the patron god of the Greek stage (theatre).
T. A mystery religion is, basically, one that provided extreme and enriched inner experience or ecstasy: personal and higher-level delivery from the daily world through physical or spiritual intoxication. 
U. Whatever his origin, Dionysus is a god always looking to improve the human condition by encouraging friendship, compassion, dance, laughter and joy.
24135

The Lusitania made her maiden voyage from Liverpool to New York in September 1907.
Q. The British Admiralty had secretly subsidized her construction with the understanding that at the outbreak of any war the ship would be consigned to government service.
R. Dubbed the "Greyhound of the Seas" she soon captured the Blue Ribbon for the fastest Atlantic crossing.
S. Her engines produced 68,000-horse power and pushed the giant through the water at an average speed over 25 knots.
T. Construction had begun in 1903 with the goal of building the fastest passenger liner afloat.
U. However, we now know she was built for a dual purpose. 
53214

In late 1875, Sioux and Cheyenne Indians defiantly left their reservations, outraged over the continued intrusions of whites into their sacred lands in the Black Hills.
Q. They gathered in Montana with the great warrior Sitting Bull to fight for their lands.
R. Spotting the Sioux village about fifteen miles away along the Rosebud River on June 25, Custer also found a nearby group of about forty warriors.
S. He did not realize that the number of warriors in the village numbered three times his strength.
T. Ignoring orders to wait, he decided to attack before they could alert the main party.
U. To force the large Indian army back to the reservations, the Army dispatched three columns to attack in coordinated fashion, one of which contained Lt. Colonel George Custer and the Seventh Cavalry.
13542

The stingray's eyes peer out from its dorsal side.
Q. Its eyes are therefore not thought by scientists to play a considerable role in hunting.
R. Its mouth, nostrils, and gill slits are situated, however, on its underbelly.
S. Located around the stingray's mouth, these organs sense the natural electrical charges of potential prey.
T. The jaw teeth in the mouth enable them to crush mollusks such as clams, oysters, and mussels.
U. Like its shark relatives, the stingray is outfitted with electrical sensors called ampullae of Lorenzini.
21453 

King Sigismund of Hungary, who became the Holy Roman Emperor in 1410, founded a secret fraternal order of knights called the Order of the Dragon to uphold Christianity and defend the Empire against the Ottoman Turks.
Q. From 1431 onward Vlad II wore the emblem of the order and later, as ruler of Wallachia, his coinage bore the dragon symbol.
R. Vlad III's father (Vlad II) was admitted to the Order around 1431 because of his bravery in fighting the Turks.
S. Its emblem was a dragon, wings extended, hanging on a cross.
T. Vlad III's father thus came to be known as "Vlad Dracul," or "Vlad the dragon."
U. The word for dragon in Romanian is "drac" and "ul" is the definitive article.
32154

One day in May 1212 there appeared at Saint-Denis, where King Philip of France was holding his court, a shepherd-boy of about twelve years old called Stephen, from the small town of Cloyes in the Orléannais.
Q. He brought with him a letter for the King, which, he said, had been given to him by Christ in person, who had appeared to him as he was tending his sheep and who had bidden him go and preach the Crusade.
R. But Stephen, whose enthusiasm had been fired by his mysterious visitor, saw himself now as an inspired leader who would succeed where his elders had failed.
S. King Philip was not impressed by the child and told him to go home.
T. For the past fifteen years preachers had been going round the country-side urging a Crusade against the Moslems of the East or of Spain or against the heretics of Languedoc.
U. It was easy for an hysterical boy to be infected with the idea that he too could be a preacher and could emulate Peter the Hermit, whose prowess had during the past century reached a legendary grandeur.
13245

One of Machu Picchu's primary functions was that of astronomical observatory.
Q. At this period of time, the Incas held ceremonies at the stone in which they formally "tied the sun" to halt its northward movement in the sky.
R. At this precise moment the sun "sits with all his might upon the pillar" and is for a moment "tied" to the rock.
S. The Intihuatana, in fact, is designed to hitch the sun at the two equinoxes, not at the solstice (as is stated in some tourist literature and new-age books).
T. The Intihuatana stone (meaning 'Hitching Post of the Sun') has been shown to be a precise indicator of the date of the two equinoxes and other significant celestial periods.
U. At midday on March 21st and September 21st, the sun stands almost directly above the pillar, creating no shadow at all.
54213

It just happens that the Moon and the Sun appear the same size in the sky as viewed from the Earth.
Q. This is called a solar eclipse; if the alignment is slighly imperfect then the Moon covers only part of the Sun's disk and the event is called a partial eclipse.
R. Total eclipses of the Sun are relatively rare in North America.
S. Partial eclipses are visible over a wide area of the Earth but the region from which a total eclipse is visible, called the path of totality, is very narrow, just a few kilometers (though it is usually thousands of kilometers long).
T. When it lines up perfectly the entire solar disk is blocked and it is called a total eclipse of the Sun.
U. And since the Moon orbits the Earth in approximately the same plane as the Earth's orbit around the Sun, sometimes the Moon comes directly between the Earth and the Sun.
25341

The whale shark was first described and named by Andrew Smith in 1828, based on a specimen harpooned in Table Bay, South Africa.
Q. However, in 1984 the International Commission on Zoological Nomenclature suppressed previous generic variations in favor of the genus name Rhincodon, and the family name Rhincodontidae.
R. Before this official name stuck, other generic names formerly used included Rhiniodon and Rhineodon and the family names Rhiodontidae and Rhineodontidae.
S. Rhincodontidae is placed in the order Orectolobiformes, which also includes families such as Ginglymostomatidae (nurse sharks) and Orectolobidae (wobbegongs).
T. The first printing of the genus name appeared as Rincodon, despite Smith's desired name of Rhineodon.
U. Historically, there have been many synonyms (alternative scientific names) for family, genus and species names of this creature.
34521

At the age of seven, Carl Friedrich Gauss started elementary school, and his potential was noticed almost immediately.
Q. After receiving a stipend from the Duke of Brunswick- Wolfenbüttel, Gauss entered Brunswick Collegium Carolinum in 1792.
R. Gauss left Göttingen in 1798 without a diploma, but by this time he had made one of his most important discoveries - the construction of a regular 17 sided polygon by ruler and compasses - the most significant advance in geometry since the time of Greek mathematics.
S. In 1788 Gauss began his education at the Gymnasium with the help of Büttner and Bartels, where he learned High German and Latin.
T. His teacher, Büttner, and his assistant, Martin Bartels, were amazed when Gauss summed the integers from 1 to 100 instantly by spotting that the sum was 50 pairs of numbers each pair summing to 101.
U. In 1795 Gauss left Brunswick to study at Göttingen University. Gauss's teacher there was Kaestner, whom Gauss often ridiculed.
35214

Shiva's dance generally represents both the destruction and the creation of the universe. 
Q. While he dances as Nataraj, we see that one hand is stretched across his chest and points towards the uplifted foot, indicating the release from earthly bondage of the devotee.
R. His Dance of Bliss, however, is for the welfare of the world.
S. Therefore, when we think of Shiva dancing, this god's dance reveals the cycles of death, birth and rebirth.
T. In this dance, in the guise of Nataraj, Shiva, the King of Dance, gives darshan to his beloved devotees within the "Hall of Consciousness," which is really the heart of humanity.
U. Under his other foot, Shiva crushes the demon of ignorance called Apasmara Purusha, caused by forgetfulness.
42135

The King Vulture finds its food with its incredibly keen sight and well-developed sense of smell. 
Q. However, it also relies on other gatherings of vultures to alert it as to the presence of food. 
R. Often if the vulture arrives before the stronger-beaked birds, the vulture will eat the eyes of the animal while waiting for the other vultures.
S. Though it appears to dominate over a feeding site, this vulture actually relies on other stronger-beaked carrion-eaters to initially rip open the hide of a carcass. 
T. Eyes are both highly nutritious and easy to reach before the animal's hide is opened.
U. Vultures will, of course, eventually, pick a corpse clean of all meat, leaving only bones to bleach in the sun.
13245

Vegetarians do not eat meat, fish, or poultry.
Q. People choose to be vegan for health, environmental, and/or ethical reasons.
R. In addition to being vegetarian, they do not use other animal products and by-products such as eggs, dairy products, honey, leather, fur, silk, wool, cosmetics, and soaps derived from animal products.
S. That is, once dairy cows or egg-laying chickens are too old to be productive, they are often sold as meat; and since male calves do not produce milk, they usually are raised for veal or other products.
T. Vegans, however, are slightly different from your average, every day vegetarian.
U. For example, some vegans feel that one promotes the meat industry by consuming eggs and dairy products.
32514

It is ironic: although ancient Athens is thought of as an enlightened and sophisticated society, unlike the women of Athens, Spartan women were taught reading and writing. 
Q. Although these skills were scorned by Menander and the Athenians,  they were embraced by the Spartans, who also expected their women to be able to protect themselves.
R. As opposed to domestic arts, a Spartan girl's education was equally as brutal as a man's; many athletic events such as javelin, discus, foot races, and staged battles were also for both sexes.
S. In many such events, Spartan women would run naked in the presence of their male counterparts and were respected for their athletic feats.
T. In fact, Menander (an Athenian) once said, "Teaching a woman to read and write? What a terrible thing to do! Like feeding a vile snake on more poison."
U. This is in clear contrast to Athens, where no physical education was provided for women and education for women was synonymous with spinning, weaving, and other domestic arts.
24513

The potato seems to us today to be such a staple food that it is hard to believe that it has only been accepted as edible by most of the Western world for the past 200 years.
Q. As well as being their staple source of food, the Incas also used potatoes for telling time, treating illness and injury, and divination.
R. Our story begins thousands of years ago, in South America—Peru, Ecuador, and the Northern part of Chile, to be exact—where the Andean Incas discovered potatoes growing wild in the highlands, and were cultivating them as early as 750 BC.
S. Although the Incas did many things with their potatoes, they did not fry them.
T. They worshipped potato deities, and when potato crops failed, the noses and lips of a few unlucky Incas would be mutilated in ceremonies designed to appease the potato gods.
U. Instead, their most popular potato dish involved laying them out in the sun for a period of weeks, then trampling on them with their bare feet to get all of the liquids out.
21435

Epictetus (pronounced Epic-TEE-tus) was a Stoic teacher who flourished in the early second century C.E. about four hundred years after the Stoic school of Zeno of Citium was established in Athens.
Q. He felt the role of a Stoic teacher was to encourage his students to live the philosophical life, whose end was eudaimonia ('happiness'), to be secured by living the life of reason, which meant living virtuously and ‘according to nature.'
R. For the only thing that is good is acting virtuously (that is, motivated by virtue), and the only thing that is bad is the opposite, acting viciously (that is, motivated by vice).
S. The key to transforming oneself into the Stoic sophos is to learn what is 'in one's power.'
T. The eudaimonia of those who attain this ideal consists of ataraxia (imperturbability), apatheia (freedom from passion) and eupatheiai ('good feelings'); thus one became a "sophos" (wise person).
U. Learning what is within one's power involves 'the correct use of impressions' (phantasiai), which in outline involves not judging as good or bad anything that appears to one.
15324

Hours before a game, beneath baseball's newest stadium, one of the sport's oldest rituals is under way.
Q. Only when they're done can the umpire yell "Play ball!"
R. Two Washington Nationals batboys are rubbing brown gunk on dozens of new balls, toweling them off once the wet dirt cakes.
S. After a pitcher lost control of the ball and killed a batter in 1920, such a substance was sought.
T. Ultimately, it was the feldspar-rich mud in R.A. Blackburne's backyard that was chosen and which is still being used today.
U. Blackburne Baseball Rubbing Mud, the brown gunk, has been helping pitchers get a grip on the ball for 70 years.
21453

As a young man, and partly a god, Gilgamesh has no compassion for the people of Uruk.
Q.  The plan works in several ways.
R.  Hearing the people's lament, the gods create Enkidu as a match for Gilgamesh, a second self: "Let them contend together and leave Uruk in quiet."
S. First, Enkidu prevents Gilgamesh from entering the house of a bride and bridegroom; they fight and then they embrace as friends.
T. He was their king but not their shepherd; he kills their sons and attacks their daughters.
U. Second, Enkidu and Gilgamesh undertake a journey into the forest to confront the terrible Humbaba, and there they encourage each other to face death triumphantly.
32415

Kamikaze, which means "Divine Wind" in Japanese, was Japan's last attempt to balance the ever increasing technological and material advantage of the American forces advancing to Japan.
Q.  Such weapons already existed and were operational for over a year then, but not in Japan
R.  The Kamikaze attack tactic was suggested on October 19, 1944, by vice-Admiral Onishi of the Japanese Navy, when he was assigned to command the air attacks against the huge American invasion fleet off the Philippines, and then realized that he had less than 100 operational aircraft for this task.
S. The German Air Force was using large radio-guided bombs against ships but Japan had no such weapon, and therefore Onishi suggested that volunteer pilots could guide their bomb-carrying aircraft all the way to a suicide collision with an American ship.
T. The solution was obvious: guided weapons provide dramatically greater accuracy and lethality than unguided weapons, producing much greater damage per weapon unit and per sortie.
U. There was no way to sink or even severely damage the American fleet in any conventional tactic, so the Admiral needed a force multiplier, a way to get a significantly greater striking power from a given force.
41532

Penicillin was originally noticed by a French medical student, Ernest Duchesne, in 1896.
Q. Fleming observed that a plate of Staphylococcus had been contaminated by a blue-green mold and that colonies of bacteria adjacent to the mold were being dissolved.
R. Curious, Alexander Fleming grew the mold in a pure culture and found that it produced a substance that killed a number of disease-causing bacteria.
S. Penicillin was re-discovered by bacteriologist Alexander Fleming working at St. Mary's Hospital in London in 1928
T. Later, Dorothy Hodgkin's discovery of the molecular layout of penicillin helped lead scientists to develop large quantities of penicillin as well as other antibiotics.
U. Naming the substance penicillin, Dr. Fleming in 1929 published the results of his investigations, noting that his discovery might have therapeutic value if it could be produced in quantity.
23154

Until the 1950s, most people thought of sleep as a passive, dormant part of our daily lives, but we now know that our brains are very active during sleep.
Q.  Nerve-signaling chemicals called neurotransmitters control whether we are asleep or awake by acting on different groups of nerve cells, or neurons, in the brain.
R.  Research also suggests that a chemical called adenosine builds up in our blood while we are awake and causes drowsiness and this chemical gradually breaks down while we sleep.
S. Neurons in the brainstem, which connects the brain with the spinal cord, produce neurotransmitters such as serotonin and norepinephrine that keep some parts of the brain active while we are awake.
T. Other neurons at the base of the brain begin signaling when we fall asleep.
U. These neurons appear to "switch off" the signals that keep us awake.
15234

The Battle of Stalingrad is considered by many historians to have been the turning point in World War Two in Europe.
Q. Some historians, in fact, believe that Hitler ordered the taking of Stalingrad simply because of the name of the city  and Hitler's hatred of Joseph Stalin.
R. The battle at Stalingrad bled the German Sixth Army dry in Russia and after this defeat, the entire Germany Army was in full retreat.
S. One of the ironies of the war, however, is that the German Sixth Army need not have gotten entangled in Stanlingrad.
T. For the same reason Stalin ordered that the city had to be saved.
U. Sixth Army Groups A and B were well on their way to the Caucasus in south-west Russia, when Hitler ordered an attack on Stalingrad.
41253

It is believed that rice cultivation began simultaneously in many countries over 6500 years ago.
Q. The first crops were observed in China (Hemu Du region) around 5000 B.C. as well as in Thailand around 4500 B.C.
R. Indica is an irrigated rice of warm tropical zones, with long, thin and flat grains.
S. They later appeared in Cambodia, Vietnam and southern India.
T. Japonica is an irrigated rice of temperate zone, with medium or short grains, also called round grain, and is a rainfed lowland rice of warm tropical zones.
U. From there, derived species Japonica and Indica expanded to other Asian countries, such as Korea, Japan, Myanmar, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Philippines and Indonesia.
15243

Bottom trawling is a practice where fishermen literally drag nets across an ocean floor, killing virtually everything in their pursuit of one type of fish.
Q. "Ten years ago, Elliott Norse and I calculated that, each year, worldwide, bottom trawlers drag an area equivalent to twice the lower 48 states."
R. Regardless of this measure, now satellite images show that spreading clouds of mud remain suspended in the sea long after the trawler has passed.
S. As a result of scientific studies showing that bottom trawling kills vast numbers of corals, sponges, fishes and other animals, bottom trawling has been banned in a growing number of places in recent years.
T. "Bottom trawling is the most destructive of any actions that humans conduct in the ocean," said Dr. Watling.
U. But what satellites can see is only the "tip of the iceberg," because most trawling happens in waters too deep to detect sediment plumes at the surface, say scientists speaking a symposium called Bottom Trawling, the World's Most Severe and Extensive Seafloor Disturbance.
52143

Many predators search for their prey with their eyes.
Q. For example, many prey species blend in with their environment, making it difficult for the predators to find them.
R. As a result, many prey species have evolved special body coloration to reduce their chance of being eaten.
S. Cryptic coloration is especially common in small animals such as insects, lizards, snakes, and frogs.
T. These animals are often the same color as the leaves or twigs on which they rest and some insects even look like the twigs or leaves themselves.
U. These species use camouflage or "crypsis" or "cryptic coloration" as their first line of defense.
21453

Zhuangzi was a Taoist philosopher who had a perplexing experience.
Q. Sure he was a butterfly he felt a joyful feeling as he fluttered about - he completely forgot that he was Zhuangzi.
R. He, himself, became confused: was Zhuangzi the butterfly, or the butterfly Zhungzi, and, he thought,  "This is what is meant by the ‘transformation of things.'"
S. One day about sunset, Zhuangzi dozed off and dreamed that he turned into a butterfly.
T. To be sure, he flapped his wings and sure enough he was a butterfly.
U. Soon though, he woke and realized that the butterfly was really Zhuangzi who dreamed he was a butterfly, or was it a butterfly who dreamed he was Zhuangzi!
35124

A "potlatch" is a ceremony of North American Indians of the northwest coast from Washington to Alaska.
Q. Although a potlatch usually included feasting, singing, and dancing, its distinctive feature was the host's lavish distribution of gifts to invited guests or his destruction of goods in their presence.
R. The more goods he could afford to lose, the more prestige he gained for himself and his relatives.
S. The word comes from patshatl: "giving" or "gift."
T. In fact, losing these goods in the potlatch was the only way to maintain or improve one's social status; to regain lost status; to validate the right to an inherited position; or to avenge an insult.
U. The guests usually reciprocated by giving their own potlatches at a later time.
23145

Eleanor Roosevelt was an orphaned, "ugly-duckling" who grew up to be the First Lady of the United States.
Q. By 1910, Franklin was a New York state senator and as his political horizons expanded, so did Eleanor's social conscience about the plight of the poor and of African Americans.
R. Thus, she was astounded when her ambitious, handsome, and eligible fifth cousin Franklin Roosevelt, proposed marriage in 1905.
S. But, as a child she had shown no evidence of an outgoing, political nature.
T. She was the niece of President Teddy Roosevelt, of course, and as such, was no stranger to the world of politics.
U. Indeed, she had been a shy, awkward, and withdrawn young woman after having been raised by her strict and dour grandmother.
54213

Calcium carbonate is used for the manufacture of putty, plaster, cement, and, of course, blackboard chalk.
Q. Chalk, in its natural state, was used by early man in prehistoric times for cave paintings.
R. Later, chalk was used as a pigment for artists and it was for artists that chalk was first manufactured into sticks.
S. Calcium carbonate is made up of Foraminifera, shells of little dead marine animals. I
T. It is found in the earth’s crust during all geological periods and is usually formed in thick deposits around marine, or formerly marine areas.
U. There are other types of naturally occurring chalk, including black chalk and red chalk. 
45123

Famous around the world for keeping impeccable time, the Big Ben Clock Tower was fully operational on September 7th, 1859. 
Q. The bell itself weighs almost 14 tons, and takes its name from the man who first ordered the bell, Sir Benjamin Hall.
R. Although most people refer to the entire tower as the Big Ben Clock Tower, the name Big Ben actually refers to the bell housed within the tower. 
S. The base of each of the clock face's of the Big Ben in London bears a Latin inscription meaning, "Lord save our Queen Victoria I", as the Big Ben Clock Tower and the adjoining Westminster Palace were constructed during the Victorian age.
T. The four clock faces of the Big Ben in London are each 23 feet in diameter; the biggest of its kind when it was constructed. 
U. Certain pieces of these four clock faces of the Big Ben in London have been designed for easy removal, to allow for cleaning and maintenance of the clock hands.
21534

Since cephalochordates have no hard parts, their fossil record is extremely sparse.
Q. They strengthen the case for an origin of true vertebrates from a cephalochordate-like ancestor.
R. These fossils show that the chordate lineage appeared very early in the known history of the animal kingdom.
S. More recently, Yunnanozoon, from the Early Cambrian of south China, was reported to be a cephalochordate, the earliest known.
T. The famous Middle Cambrian Burgess Shale of British Columbia has yielded a few fossils of Pikaia, which appears to be a cephalochordate (although the fossils are still being restudied).
U. However, fossil cephalochordates have been found in very old rocks indeed, predating the origin of the vertebrates.
54321

Sigmund Freud, the founder of psychoanalysis, was highly influenced by the field of physics.
Q. The application of this principle led to the monumental discoveries in the fields of thermodynamics, electromagneticism, and nuclear physics which, with their associated technologies, have so comprehensively transformed the contemporary world. 
R. When he first came to the University of Vienna Freud worked under the direction of Ernst Brücke, who in 1874 published a book setting out the view that all living organisms, including the human one, are essentially energy-systems to which, no less than to inanimate objects, the principle of the conservation of energy applies.
S. Freud, who had great admiration and respect for Brücke, quickly adopted this new 'dynamic physiology' with enthusiasm.
T. The second 50 years of the nineteenth century saw monumental advances in contemporary physics, which were largely initiated by the formulation of the principle of the conservation of energy by Helmholz.
U. This principle states that the total amount of energy in any given physical system is always constant, that energy quanta can be changed but not annihilated, and consequently that when energy is moved from one part of the system it must reappear in another part.
34512

Early in the morning of Sunday, August 13, 1961, the German Democratic Republic (GDR or East Germany) began to block off East Berlin from West Berlin by means of barbed wire and antitank obstacles.
Q. Streets were torn up, and barricades of paving stones were erected an tanks gathered at crucial places.
R. The wall would not come down until the fall of communism in 1989.
S. Then, the subway and local railway services between East and West Berlin were interrupted.
T. In the following days, construction brigades began replacing the provisional barriers by a solid wall.
U. Suddenly, within hours of these measures, inhabitants of East Berlin and the GDR were no longer allowed to enter West Berlin, among them 60,000 commuters who had worked in West Berlin.
15243

During the Berlin Olympics of 1936, the Nazis portrayed African-Americans as inferior and ridiculed the United States for relying on “...black athletes to win medals.”
Q. But the German people felt otherwise.
R. On Aug. 3, the 5-foot-10, 165-pound Owens won his first final, taking the 100 meters in 10.3 seconds, edging out Ralph Metcalfe, also an African-American.
S. One German official even complained that the Americans were letting "non-humans, like Owens and other Negro athletes," compete.
T. Crowds of 110,000 cheered him in Berlin's glittering Olympic Stadium and his autograph or picture was sought as he walked the streets.
U. He would win three more medals, including the long-jump medal, when he beat the blonde-haired and blue-eyed German favorite.
24135

Concrete is a compound material made from sand, gravel and cement.  
Q. The pink sand turned out to be fine volcanic ash and they had inadvertently produced the first 'pozzolanic' cement. 
R. The oldest known surviving concrete is to be found in the former Yugoslavia and was thought to have been laid in 5,600 BC using red lime as the cement. 
S. The Romans found that by mixing a pink sand-like material which they obtained from Pozzuoli with their normal lime-based concretes they obtained a far stronger material.  
T. Pozzolana is any siliceous or siliceous and aluminous material which possesses little or no cementitious value in itself but will, if finely divided and mixed with water, chemically react with calcium hydroxide to form compounds with cementitious properties.
U. The first major concrete users, however, were the Egyptians in around 2,500 BC and the Romans from 300 BC.
41352 

Designing the first Ferris Wheel was no easy task, even for experienced engineers.
Q. Difficulties were also met in obtaining financing, for in 1892, the country was in the midst of a severe depression.
R. His ideas were first treated as those of a lunatic and he became known as "The Man with Wheels in his Head."
S. Stresses for such a structure had never been determined, so the theory of design had to be derived from first principles.
T. Armed with completed plans and guaranteed financing, Ferris approached the Columbian Exposition's Ways and Means Committee in the spring of 1892.
U. But Ferris's quiet yet enthusiastic manner inspired confidence and the Ferris Wheel Company was eventually capitalized at $600,000.
25143

Less than a decade after the Emancipation Proclamation, the insatiable appetite of the railroads drew former slaves into work as steel drivers to create the tunnels and lay the tracks needed to expand rail routes across the American continent. 
Q. Living under conditions scarcely better than their days in slavery, steel drivers labored in hard, dirty, cramped and life-threatening circumstances to drill through the living granite heart of the Appalachians.
R. From the isolated, brawling. death-defying lives of these men, stories arose - some true, some imaginary - to inspire, amuse and entertain the workers: the most enduring of these, in song and myth, is the Legend of John Henry.
S. The partner held in place a steel shaft with a cutting head that the "driver," often working from awkward angles, forced into the native stone with repeated strikes of his hammer.
T. To do this, a steel driver worked with a partner.
U. Once the shaft had cut a hole sufficiently deep, a blaster would pack the hole with explosives and blow another notch into the tunnel.
15324

In Latin, “Cogito ergo sum.” means: “I think, therefore I am.”
Q. Therefore, regardless of even a trick by Satan himself, whenever I think, I know that I exist.
R. This was a dictum coined in 1637 by René Descartes as a first step in demonstrating that we can know certain things are absolutely true.
S. Furthermore, he argued, the statement “I am” (sum) expresses an immediate intuition, not the conclusion of dubious reasoning, and is thus indubitable. 
T. The statement is indubitable (not doubtable), Descartes argued, because even if an all-powerful demon were to try to deceive me into thinking that I exist when I do not, I would have to exist for the demon to deceive me.
U. In conclusion, therefore, whatever I know, I know intuitively that I am.
31425

Archeological evidence suggests that people consumed tea leaves steeped in boiling water as many as 500,000 years ago.
Q. The difference between the teas is in their processing.
R. Antioxidants are substances that scavenge free radicals -- damaging compounds in the body that alter cells, tamper with DNA (genetic material), and even cause cell death.
S. Free radicals occur naturally in the body, but environmental toxins (including ultraviolet rays from the sun, radiation, cigarette smoke, and air pollution) also give rise to these damaging particles.
T. Green tea is made from unfermented leaves and reportedly contains the highest concentration of powerful antioxidants called polyphenols.
U. There are three main varieties of tea -- green, black, and oolong.
24531

Some studies suggest that at least some bird species have evolved mental skills similar to those found in humans and apes.  
Q. When such mirror-induced behavior in the magpie, a songbird species from the crow family, was examined some individuals behaved in front of the mirror similarly to apes.  
R. It is, however, not yet clear whether these skills are accompanied by an understanding of the self.  
S. This is indicated by feats such as tool use, episodic-like memory, and the ability to use one's own experience in predicting the behavior of members of one’s own species.  
T. For example, when they noticed a color mark on their bodies, magpies tried to remove the mark. 
U. In apes, behavior in response to a mirror, in which the ape clearly recognizes himself, has been taken as evidence of self-recognition. 
43152

The lotus (Sanskrit and Tibetan padma), because of it’s conditions and growth, is one of the most poignant representations of Buddhist teaching. 
Q. This pattern of growth symbolizes the progress of the soul from the primeval mud of materialism, through the waters of experience, and into the bright sunshine of enlightenment. 
R. According to another scholar, "In esoteric Buddhism the heart of a being is like an unopened lotus: when the virtues of the Buddha develop therein, the lotus blossoms; that is why the Buddha sits on a lotus bloom." 
S. Though there are other water plants that also bloom above the water, it is only the lotus which, owing to the strength of its stem, regularly rises eight to twelve inches above the surface.  
T. Realizing the unique circumstances of the flower and its differences from others,  Lalitavistara states, "The spirit of the best of people is spotless, like the lotus in the muddy water which has not become muddy."  
U. The roots of a lotus are, after all, in the mud, the stem growing through the water, the heavily scented flower lying pristinely above the water, basking in the sunlight.  
25341

On April 21, 1918 Baron von Richthofen followed the Sopwith Camel of Wilfred May far into British territory.  
Q. Manfred von Richthofen crashed into a field alongside the road from Corbie to Bray, his body was recovered by British forces, and he was buried with full military honors. 
R. He did this even though the thrill of the hunt was all but gone for Richthofen, as most of his peers had already been killed and his own wounds agonized him.  
S. The shot is commonly believed to have come from Australian gunners on the ground, but might have also come from the guns of Canadian flier Arthur "Roy" Brown who was coming to May's aid. 
T. Though he had written that it was undignified to chase an enemy who had fled, he chased his British quarry far deep into enemy territory and far lower to the ground than was prudent.  
U. May later said that it was only his erratic, untrained piloting which saved him and as Richthofen followed the erratic path of the novice pilot, a single bullet, shot from behind him, passed diagonally through his chest.  
51423

In an analysis almost 147 years after his death, doctors believe that writer Edgar Allan Poe died as a result of rabies, not from complications of alcoholism.  
Q. Poe's medical case was reviewed by R. Michael Benitez, M.D., a cardiologist at the University of Maryland Medical Center. 
R. At first he had tremors and hallucinations, then slipped into a coma, emerged from the coma, was calm and lucid, but then lapsed again into a delirious state, became combative, and required restraint, finally dying on his fourth day in the hospital. 
S. "No one can say conclusively that Poe died of rabies, since there was no autopsy after his death," says Dr. Benitez, who is also an assistant professor of medicine at the University of Maryland School of Medicine.  
T. "But the historical accounts of Poe's condition in the hospital a few days before his death point to a strong possibility that he had rabies.” 
U. Poe was discovered lying unconscious on September 28  outside a saloon on Lombard St. in Baltimore, before being taken to Washington College Hospital. 
15234

Elephants are profoundly social creatures.  
Q. This sense of cohesion is further enforced by the elaborate communication system that elephants use. 
R. Afterwards young females are socialized into the matriarchal network while young males go off for a time into an all-male social group before coming back into the fold as mature adults. 
S. When communicating over long distances — in order to pass along news about threats, a change of plans or, of the utmost importance to elephants, the death of a community member — they use patterns of subsonic vibrations that are felt as far as several miles away by sensors in the padding of their feet. 
T. For example, young elephants stay within 15 feet of their mothers for nearly all of their first eight years of life.   
U. They employ a range of vocalizations, from low-frequency rumbles to higher-pitched screams and trumpets, along with a variety of visual signals, from the waving of their trunks to subtle anglings of the head, body, feet and tail.  
32514

In the 5th century BC, in Celtic Ireland, summer officially ended on October 31, and this holiday was called Samhain (sow-en), the Celtic New year.  
Q. So on the night of October 31, villagers would extinguish the fires in their homes, to make them cold and undesirable. 
R. Naturally, the still-living did not want to be possessed. 
S. One story says that, on that day, the disembodied spirits of all those who had died throughout the preceding year would come back in search of living bodies to possess for the next year.  
T. It was believed to be their only hope for the afterlife.  
U. They would then dress up in all manner of ghoulish costumes and noisily paraded around the neighborhood, being as destructive as possible in order to frighten away spirits looking for bodies to possess. 
43125

Michael Peter Fay, an American teenager visiting Singapore in 1991, plead guilty to vandalism charges, and was sentenced to four months in jail, a $2,200 fine - and four strokes of the cane.  
Q. A prison official, a medical officer and the caner were the only ones present, as the caner wound up and, using his full body weight, struck with the 13mm-thick rattan rod, which had been soaked overnight to prevent it from splitting.  
R. This sentence raised concerns about corporal punishment around the civilized world, especially in light of how the punishment was administrated.  
S. News of this ritual angered many in the USA, who, although not opposed to punishment, are opposed to what they feel is harsh, physical punishment. 
T. After the fourth and final stroke, say Singapore officials, Fay shook hands with his caner and insisted on walking back to his cell unaided because he “...wanted to act like a man.” 
U. In the caning room Fay was stripped naked, bent over and his arms and legs were fastened to an H-shaped trestle by straps while a protective covering was placed over his kidneys.  
31542

Finger-like divisions found in the fins of an ancient fish that lived around 385 million years ago have been hailed by Swedish scientists as the possible origin of human hands and fingers. 
Q. But this study has revealed that they were already developing when our ancestors were fish. 
R. “Our study proves that fingers are not new to tetrapods but that they evolved from distal radials, structures present in fish ancestors.”  
S. “It’s an important piece of evidence for the evolution of fish to tetrapods and how ‘we’ also transformed from fish to land animals.” 
T. It had been concluded that digits only developed after our ancestors made the jump from sea to land 380 million years ago.  
U. “For a long time, we thought that fingers were a novelty for tetrapods; in the past two years, some evidence has come forward to make us doubt this,” said Catherine Boisvert, lead scientist.  
24513

How great was Ferenc Puskas? Such things, necessarily, are subjective - and, particularly when you're going on video footage, almost impossible to judge - but for me he stands alongside Johan Cruyff as one of the two greatest European soccer players of all time. 
Q. "If a good player has the ball, he should have the vision to spot three team mates or options," the full-back Jeno Buzanszky said; "Puskas always saw at least five." 
R. It is not even the fact that he had key parts in two of the most celebrated games ever played on British soil - Hungary's 6-3 victory over England at Wembley in 1953 and Real Madrid's 7-3 victory over Eintracht Frankfurt in 1960. 
S. That is why his nickname, the 'Galloping Major', was so appropriate - even if he hardly galloped and, at the time it was bestowed, was only a lieutenant - because he was so good at marshalling his side towards a common goal.  
T. It is the fact that that ability was allied to a brain that understood how best to use his ability for the team. 
U. It was not just his technical ability because other players have had that.  
52431

The first successful dirigible (a balloon that has engines to control its horizontal movement) was built in France in 1852.  
Q. Although other countries built these types of airships, the Germans quickly became the most advanced in this form of lighter-than-air technology.  
R. The type of airships Zeppelin built were spindle-shaped with a rigid internal steel structure (unlike the flexible bodied blimps common today).  
S. Beneath the craft was a gondola which carried the crew and passengers. 
T. Count Ferdinand von Zeppelin, a German businessman, built a fleet of experimental dirigibles.  
U. Inside the craft were large bags filled with gas that gave the ship its lift as well as catwalks to allow the crew to move back and forth inside the hull to service the airship.  
13524

One day in 1942, copies of a leaflet entitled "The White Rose" suddenly appeared at the University of Munich.   
Q. The leaflet caused a tremendous stir among the student body because it was the first time that internal dissent against the Nazi regime had surfaced in Germany.   
R. At the bottom of the essay, the following request appeared: "Please make as many copies of this leaflet as you can and distribute them." 
S. The essay had been secretly written and distributed by Hans Scholl and his friends and another leaflet appeared soon afterward, and then another, and another. 
T. The leaflet contained an anonymous essay that said that the Nazi system had slowly imprisoned the German people and was now destroying them.  
U. The Nazi regime had turned evil and it was time, the essay said, for Germans to rise up and resist the tyranny of their own government.  
43512

"The gods condemned Sisyphus to ceaselessly roll a rock to the top of a mountain," wrote Albert Camus, "then the stone would fall back of its own weight; they thought that there is no more dreadful punishment than futile and hopeless labor."   
Q. Over and over it happens that a theory or explanation believed to be well established has to be abandoned or rethought of by researchers in the light of new findings. 
R. Half a century ago Stanley L. Miller demonstrated that amino acids and other biochemically significant compounds could be easily synthesized under conditions simulating those of the primitive atmosphere. 
S. Like Sisyphus, these researchers trying to discover the origins of life and study the earliest stages of biological evolution have an uphill quest because theories must be abandoned and rethought. 
T. Nowadays geoscientists tend to doubt that the conditions of the prebiotic environment were as reducing as Miller and others had assumed. 
U. Of all the examples, maybe one is the most famous. 
14253

When he was two years old, Joseph Merrick’s mother noticed that some areas of his skin began to change.   
Q. The right side of his head began to grow, as did his right arm and hand so that by the time he was 12 years old, Joseph's hand was so deformed as to be useless; furthermore, the growths on his skin were now large and repulsive to look at.  
R. Over the next years, Joseph left home, tried working in a factory but was abused by the workers there, and finally ended up in a freak show.  
S. Some darkened, discolored skin growths were appearing, and they began to look bumpy and rough.   
T. Furthermore, the other boys in early grade school were starting to make fun of him and as Joseph grew older, he began to look even more strange. 
U. Lumps began to grow under the boy's skin, on his neck, his chest, and the back of his head and Mary Jane Merrick began to worry about her son, Joseph. 
45132

The world's largest lizard, the Komodo dragon, has a snake-like venom in its bite which sends victims into shock and stops their blood from clotting, according to Australian research. 
Q. Fry also surgically removed a venom gland from a terminally ill Komodo at Singapore Zoo for the study, and said it contained a highly toxic poison which would induce potent stomach cramps, hypothermia and a drop in blood pressure.  
R. But magnetic resonance imagery has for the first time uncovered venom glands containing a shock-inducing poison which increases blood flow and decreases blood pressure, scientists say.  
S. Bryan Fry, a leading researcher, said this three-dimensional computer imaging comparing the Komodo's bite with that of Australia's saltwater crocodile showed it used a "grip and rip" pulling manoeuvre to tear deep wounds, similar to a shark or sabre cat. 
T. "Such a fall in blood pressure would be debilitating in conjunction with blood loss and would render the envenomed prey unable to escape," he said.  
U. It had previously been widely believed that deadly bacteria in the carnivorous lizard's mouth helped kill its prey. 
42351

The relationship between Alexander Hamilton and Aaron Burr was charged with political rivalry and personal animosity.   
Q. His greatest accomplishment was achieved in 1800 when he was elected Vice President to Thomas Jefferson, although Hamilton considered him an unprincipled rogue.  
R. Burr, on the other hand, represented the old Republican Party and the interests of strong individual states and wealthy landowners.   
S. Alexander Hamilton, the nation's first Secretary of the Treasury, was the chief author of The Federalist Papers, which advocated a strong central government.   
T. Burr responded by challenging his antagonist to a duel, an invitation Hamilton felt compelled to accept; the duel led to Hamilton’s death.  
U. The antagonism between the two came to a head in 1804 when Hamilton thwarted Burr's attempt to gain re-nomination for Vice President as well as his bid to win the governorship of New York. 
32154

Until 1932, the atom was known to consist of a positively charged nucleus surrounded by enough negatively charged electrons to make the atom electrically neutral. 
Q. This postulation stimulated a search for the particle that culminated in the discovery of the neutron by James Chadwick in the aforementioned year of 1932.  
R. In addition to the beta particles, certain radioactive nuclei emitted positively charged alpha particles and neutral gamma radiation. 
S. Most of the atom was thought to be empty space, with its mass concentrated in a tiny nucleus. 
T. The nucleus was thought to contain both protons and electrons because the proton (otherwise known as the hydrogen ion, H+) was the lightest known nucleus and because electrons were emitted by the nucleus in beta particles.   
U. Despite this belief, twelve years earlier, Lord Ernest Rutherford, a pioneer in atomic structure, had postulated the existence of a neutral particle, with the approximate mass of a proton, that could result from the capture of an electron by a proton.  
53124

Richard the Lionhearted was determined to arrive at Jerusalem to take on Saladin. 
Q. It was also slightly cooler with a coastal breeze.  
R. The march south to Jerusalem was very difficult.   
S. The Crusaders kept as near to the coast as possible to allow ships to supply them. 
T. At night when the Crusaders tried to rest, they were also plagued by tarantulas; their bites were poisonous and very painful.   
U. Regardless of this, the Christians suffered from the heat and lack of water. 
31254

Two types of polynucleotides are present in all cells.  
Q. Both DNA and RNA also contain phosphate and four nucleotide BASES.  
R. There are two chemical differences between them. 
S. Three of the bases are the same, GUANINE, ADENINE, CYTOSINE, however DNA contains THYMINE, while RNA contains URACIL.   
T. First, both have a PENTOSE sugar (5-carbon atoms), but DNA contains the pentose sugar DEOXYRIBOSE and RNA contains the pentose sugar RIBOSE.  
U. These are DEOXYRIBONUCLEIC ACID (DNA) and RIBONUCLEIC ACID (RNA). 
42531

A proper golf swing obviously has an enormous impact on your game of golf.   
Q. The golf swing is a great example of the physics of angular motion.   
R. Most club heads weigh about the same, so the key to being able to hit the long ball lies in the club head velocity. 
S. The faster your club head is going at the bottom of your swing, the greater the amount of kinetic energy that will be transferred from club head to the ball because the kinetic energy is proportional to the mass of the club head and the square of its velocity.  
T. This torque force changes the angular velocity of the club, causing rotation.   
U. The twisting swing produces torque on the club. 
14532

Just before the Nazi occupation of Paris in 1940, the lift cables for the elevators of the Eiffel Tower were cut by the French so that Adolf Hitler would have to climb the steps if he wanted to reach the summit.   
Q. When he visited Paris, Hitler chose not to make the long climb to the top and so it was said that Hitler conquered France, but did not conquer the Eiffel Tower. 
R. Von Choltitz disobeyed the order and the elevators of the Tower were working normally within hours of the Liberation of Paris. 
S. Consequently, the first German soldiers had to climb to the top to hoist the swastika, but the flag was so large it blew away just a few hours later, and it was replaced by a smaller one. 
T. In August 1944, when the Allies were nearing Paris, Hitler did, however, order General Dietrich von Choltitz, the military governor of Paris, to demolish the tower along with the rest of the city. 
U. Workers knew that parts to repair the cables would be impossible for the Germans to obtain because of the war.  
35241

The earliest written mention of Sumo is found in the Kojiki (Record of Ancient Matters), a book from the year 712, which is the oldest example of Japanese writing. 
Q. However, since the Japanese didn't keep any written records until the 8th century, it is impossible to know, aside from this legend, exactly when Sumo did start in Japan. 
R. The Kojiki relates a legend about how possession of the Japanese islands was determined by a Sumo match 2,500 years ago between the gods Takemikazuchi and Takeminakata. 
S.Thus Sumo from the start was different from most other sporting matches; each match was a religious and historical recreation. 
T.The two grappled on the shores of Izumo along the Japan Sea coast until the latter finally lost. 
U. Thus control of the islands was ceded to the Japanese people led by Takemikazuchi, who is said to have established the imperial family from which the present emperor traces his ancestry. 
51423

The Loch Ness "monster" - affectionately known as "Nessie" - is an alleged plesiosaur-like creature living in Loch Ness, a long, deep lake near Inverness, Scotland. 
Q. Many sightings of the "monster" have been recorded, going back at least as far as St. Columba, the Irish monk who converted most of Scotland to Christianity in the 6th century. 
R. The locals had known the ancient history of the sea serpent. But after the photo, the scientific experts were called in, and to this day they have found nothing to support the image. 
S. Columba apparently converted Nessie, too; for it is said that until he went out on the waters and soothed the beast, she had been a murderess. 
T. That photo created quite a fuss because before the photo, Nessie was only the stuff of legend and myth. 
U. The modern legend of Nessie begins in 1934 with Dr. Robert Kenneth Wilson, a London physician, who allegedly photographed a plesiosaur-like beast with a long neck emerging out of the murky waters. 
15243

Uranus is distinguished by the fact that it is tipped on its side. 
Q. Voyager 2 found that one of the most striking influences of this sideways position is its effect on the tail of the magnetic field, which is itself tilted 60 degrees from the planet's axis of rotation. 
R. The magnetic field source responsible for this magnetotail and its shape is unknown. 
S. Its unusual position is thought to be the result of a collision with a planet-sized body early in the solar system's history. 
T. We do know that the magnetic fields of Earth and other planets are believed to arise from electrical currents produced in their molten cores. 
U. The magnetotail was shown to be twisted by the planet's rotation into a long corkscrew shape behind the planet. 
24153

A songwriter, itinerant laborer, and union organizer, Joe Hill became famous around the world after a Utah court convicted him of murder in 1915. 
Q. Nevertheless, Hill’s integrity, honor and dedication to the welfare of workers became stronger after his trial and death; his well-known ironic humor lasted until the end as well. 
R. The conviction, we now know, was an injustice; yet a campaign to exonerate Hill  that began two months before the murder trial was futile. 
S. And he did die like a rebel; a member of the firing squad at his execution claimed that the command to "Fire!" had come from Hill himself. 
T. Shortly before his execution he wrote to the former president of the Western Federation of Miners: "Goodbye Bill: I die like a true rebel. Don't waste any time mourning, organize workers to protect their rights! It is a hundred miles from here to Wyoming. Could you arrange to have my body hauled to the state line to be buried? I wouldn't want to be found dead in Utah." 
U. After a brief service in Salt Lake City, Hill's body was sent to Chicago, where thousands of mourners heard Hill's "Rebel Girl" sung for the first time, listened to hours of speeches and then walked behind his casket to Graceland Cemetery. 
21435

Many American literary  figures of the late 1800's began to look at the corruption involving large US companies. 
Q. These new and socially reforming journalists saw themselves as scientists objectively reporting the conditions and ills of modern industrial society. 
R. The writers of this fiction and nonfiction became known as "Muckrakers," a term created by Theodore Roosevelt in reference to their ability to uncover "dirt." 
S. They put their talents to work, most often writing investigative fiction based on fact, but sometimes writing stark nonfiction. 
T. Most of their articles focused on business and political corruption, such as Ida Tarbell's series on Standard Oil, Lincoln Steffens's investigations of scandals in city and state politics, and Upton Sinclair's exposé of the meat-packing industry. 
U. This muckraking grew out of two related developments of the era—a new people-oriented journalism and the impulse to reform social wrongs. 
42153

Pontiac subscribed to the religious beliefs of Neolin, a prophet among the Delaware Indians during the 1760s.   
Q. Neolin encouraged his fellow Indians to forsake all English goods and customs because he felt that the natives' dependence on these items had infuriated their gods.  
R. Pontiac concurred with Neolin's views about autonomy from the English, but also felt the Native Americans had to remain militarily strong to drive the Europeans out of the Ohio Country.  
S. The irony is that although Neolin urged the natives to reject all European customs, missionaries from the Moravian Church heavily influenced his views of the Great Spirit who could save the natives from eternal suffering.  
T. To continue their dependence on European ways would condemn the Indians to eternal suffering.   
U. Therefore, the reason why the Native Americans in the Ohio Country currently suffered at the hands of the English was because they had forgotten the true ways of their people.   
15432

Flu has been a regular scourge of humanity for thousands of years.   
Q. The virus is well adapted to their immune systems, and does not usually make them sick.  
R. This leaves the animals free to move around and spread the virus - just what it needs to persist.  
S. Flu viruses each possess a mere 10 genes encoded in RNA.   
T. All of the 16 known genetic subgroups originate in water birds, and especially in ducks.   
U. But sometimes a bird flu virus jumps to an animal whose immune system it is not adapted to. 
34125

One in three of us will get cancer at some point in our lives.   
Q. Of those with the most common childhood cancer, acute lymphocytic leukemia, 85% are still alive five years later, compared with just 53% in the 1970s. 
R. But death rates are falling, thanks to earlier detection of tumors and improved use of existing treatments - mainly chemotherapy and radiotherapy.   
S. The success has been biggest for children: since the mid-1970s, death rates from cancers of childhood have halved.   
T. Cancer has, however, turned out to be tougher to crack than everyone hoped when US President Richard Nixon launched the War on Cancer in 1971.   
U. Once so feared its name was whispered, the disease is no longer an inevitable death sentence. 
53421

Sickle cell anemia is a blood disorder that affects hemoglobin, the protein found in red blood cells (RBCs) that helps carry oxygen throughout the body.  
Q. Instead of being flexible and disc-shaped, these cells are more stiff and curved in the shape of the old farm tool known as a sickle — that's where the disease gets its name.   
R. They can easily "squeeze" through even very small blood vessels, unlike the sickle-shaped cells.  
S. Red blood cells with normal hemoglobin (hemoglobin A, or HbA) move easily through the bloodstream, delivering oxygen to all of the cells of the body.   
T. Sickle cell anemia occurs when a person inherits two abnormal genes (one from each parent) that cause their RBCs to change shape.   
U. Normal RBCs are shaped like discs or doughnuts with the centers partially "scooped out" and are soft and flexible. 
25314

The first kayaks were fashioned out of driftwood and animal skins by the natives of the arctic regions of Asia, North America, and Greenland.   
Q. Lashed together with animal sinews, these early boats evolved to use seal bladders filled with air to make the them buoyant and nearly unsinkable.   
R. Native hunters would fill these advanced kayaks with enough supplies for extended hunting expeditions across the inhospitable arctic environment.  
S. In fact, the name kayak means "hunter's boat."  
T. These long, narrow, covered boats were ideally suited for hunting seals and walruses across the frigid arctic waters.  
U. Over time, the Inuits, Aleuts, and other natives modified the kayaks for the area of the arctic that they lived in. 
45213

Bullfighting is certainly one of the best-known, although at the same time most controversial, Spanish popular customs.  
Q. Formerly this bull's forebears, the primitive urus, were spread out over wide areas of the world.  
R. These bulls also played an important role in the religious ceremonies of the Iberian tribes living in Spain in prehistoric times. 
S. Many civilizations revered them; the bull cults on the Greek island of Crete are very well known and the Bible tells of sacrifices of these bulls in honor of divine justice.  
T. In fact, the origins of the plaza de toros (bullring) are probably not the Roman amphitheatres but rather the Celtic-Iberian temples where those ceremonies were held.   
U. This Fiesta could not exist without the toro bravo, a species of bull of an ancient race that is only conserved in Spain. 
24351

Ted Kaczynski, the “Unabomber,” killed three people and wounded 22 with his mailbombs.  
Q. From his cabin in the woods in Montana, the reclusive mathematician sent out bomb after bomb, and then letter after letter haranguing victims who had survived his attacks. 
R. The mad genius, whom investigators tagged as the University and Airline Bomber, terrorized the country for nearly two decades.   
S. At this time, someone recognized his ideas in the manifesto: his brother, David, who had not seen Ted for many years, but who had many deep and thoughtful conversations with him in the past.  
T. No one was able to figure out who he was until 1995 when he sent out a 35,000-word manifesto against technology and industrialization, which the Washington Post and the New York Times published in order to prevent the Unabomber from carrying out his threat to blow up a plane over Los Angeles.   
U. And so, the brutal chess game between bomber and government came to an end as a family drama between two brothers who were very much alike and yet different enough for one to give the other up to the FBI for the public good. 
21435

Emotion and memory are very closely related.  
Q. So perhaps you would not be surprised to learn that the portion of the emotion system of the brain (the "limbic system") is in charge of transferring information into memory. 
R. From years of experiments and surgical experience, we now know that the main location for this transfer is a portion of the temporal lobe called the hippocampus.  
S. You know this from your experience.   
T. The woman who made you laugh, the man who made you feel embarrassed, and your new boss - the ones who had an emotional impact.  
U. If you go to a party, meet a bunch of new people, which faces are you going to remember?  
45132

Millions of zoo visitors enjoy watching giant pandas eat. 
Q. The panda also uses its powerful jaws and strong teeth to crush the tough, fibrous bamboo into bits for its digestive system to process. 
R. To make up for the inefficient digestion, a panda needs to consume a comparatively large amount of food—from 20 to 40 pounds of bamboo each day meaning that a panda must spend 10 to 16 hours a day foraging and eating.  
S. This posture leaves the front paws free to grasp bamboo stems with the help of a "pseudo thumb," formed by an elongated and enlarged wrist bone covered with a fleshy pad of skin.   
T. A giant panda’s digestive system is more similar to that of a carnivore than an herbivore, and so much of what is eaten is passed as waste. 
U. A panda usually eats while sitting upright, in a pose that resembles how humans sit on the floor. 
35241

Paul MacLean, the former director of the Laboratory of the Brain and Behavior at the United States National Institute of Mental Health, developed a model of the brain based on its evolutionary development. 
Q. We still carry that reptilian part in our brain (R-complex) but it has been supplemented by an early mammalian brain containing emotion (limbic system) and a more advanced mammalian brain for higher-order thinking (neo-cortex).  
R. It is referred to as the "triune brain theory" because MacLean suggests that the human brain is actually three brains in one.   
S. At one point in the evolution of life, reptiles were the highest life form, but had basic brains that lacked emotional centers - this is why reptiles often do not care for their young.  
T. Each of the layers or "brains" were established successively in response to evolutionary need.   
U. The three layers are the reptilian system, or R-complex, the limbic system, and the neocortex. 
51423

With the outbreak of World War I, Mata Hari's cross-border liaisons with German political and military figures came to the attention of the French secret police and she was placed under surveillance. 
Q. Her trial in July revealed some damning evidence that the dancer was unable to adequately explain.  
R. In the murky world of the spy, however, the French suspected her of being a double agent. 
S. Brought in for questioning, the French reportedly induced her to travel to neutral Spain in order to develop relationships with the German naval and army attaches in Madrid and report any intelligence back to Paris.   
T. She was convicted and sentenced to death, and in the early-morning hours of October 15, Mata Hari was awakened and taken by car from her Paris prison cell to an army barracks on the city's outskirts where she was to meet her fate.  
U. In February 1917 Mata Hari returned to Paris and was immediately arrested; charged with being a German spy. 
42153

Do the Neanderthal burials that have been discovered indicate a pre-human religion? 
Q. One Neanderthal was found lying on his right side with his head resting on his folded hands at a burial site in Le Moustier, France. 
R. There have been many Neanderthal burial sites found across the world and it has been an accepted fact that Neanderthals buried their dead.  
S. Such a position hints to some that the Neanderthals were concerned with his comfort in the afterlife; Yoel Rak, a paleoanthropologist stated, “I doubt they were buried just because they smelled.” 
T. On the other hand, many people believe that they buried their dead because they had religious beliefs. 
U. However, some people believe that they buried their dead just because they didn’t want animals to eat the carcass or so that they did not have to view the decaying body.  
41532

There is no effective vaccine against malaria. 
Q. This includes the use of insecticide-treated mosquito netting and spraying indoor walls with insecticide. 
R. Explain to your doctor exactly where you're going: the drugs you're prescribed depend on the level of drug resistance within your area of travel. 
S. Two or three months before traveling to an area where malaria is prevalent, talk to your doctor or a tropical disease specialist or visit a travel health clinic to obtain the necessary medications to prevent malaria and to receive travel-related vaccines and information. 
T. Beyond the physical means of prevention, most drugs used to treat malaria are also used to prevent it. 
U. In countries where the disease is endemic, prevention involves keeping mosquitoes away from humans. 
25431

Worker bees occasionally kill their queen. 
Q. Generally, it has been thought that bees "balled" strange or introduced queens because the foreign queens did not have the proper "colony" odor. 
R. To do this, 15 or 20 worker bees collect about her in a tight ball until she starves. 
S. More frequently, they will kill a newly introduced or virgin queen. 
T. Even if the ball is broken up, the queen seldom survives and the stimulus is powerful enough that the bees taking part in the queen balling are sometimes subsequently balled by other bees. 
U. The reason for balling is probably more complicated that that, because bees occasionally will ball their own queen. 
32154

One of Einstein's great insights was to realize that matter and energy are really different forms of the same thing.  
Q. Matter can be turned into energy, and energy into matter. 
R. Einstein's formula tells us the amount of energy this mass would be equivalent to, if it were all suddenly turned into energy. 
S. This is an incredible amount of energy because one Joule is about the energy released when you drop a textbook to the floor: so the amount of energy in 30 grams of hydrogen atoms is equivalent to burning hundreds of thousands of gallons of gasoline! 
T. It says that to find the energy, you multiply the mass by the square of the speed of light, this number being 300,000,000 meters per second (a very large number): 0.111 x 300,000,000 x 300,000,000 = 10,000,000,000,000,000 Joules. 
U. For example, consider that in one kilogram of pure water, the mass of hydrogen atoms amounts to just slightly more than 111 grams, or 0.111 kg. 
13542

On November 3, 1957, the U.S.S.R. stunned the world with a space sensation - the launch of Sputnik 2 with a live dog on-board. 
Q. Recently, several Russian sources revealed that Laika survived in orbit for four days and then died when the cabin overheated. 
R. Years after Sputnik 2 burned up in the atmosphere, conflicting scenarios of Laika's death were circulating in the West. 
S. The Soviet press boasted about the 250-pound object equipped with a cabin, providing all the necessary life support for a dog named Laika. 
T. But many details of what happened to the mission have only recently been revealed. 
U. However, the Soviets admitted soon after the launch that the spacecraft would not return, meaning that the animal was doomed from the start. 
54213

Loosely speaking, a black hole is a region of space that has so much mass concentrated in it that there is no way for a nearby object to escape its gravitational pull.  
Q. Now imagine an object with such an enormous concentration of mass in such a small radius that its escape velocity would be greater than the velocity of light.  
R. Suppose that you are standing on the surface of a planet, and you throw a rock straight up into the air and watch it come back down.   
S. If you could throw the rock hard enough, though, you could make it escape the planet's gravity entirely and it would keep on going forever.   
T. As you would expect, the escape velocity depends on the mass of the planet: if the planet is extremely massive, then its gravity is very strong, and the escape velocity is high.  
U. The speed with which you would need to throw the rock in order that it just barely escapes the planet's gravity is called the "escape velocity." 
51243

You don’t have to be Dionysus to make wine. 
Q. Then it is necessary to press the “must” in order to squeeze every last delicious drop from the protesting grapes and this extracted juice is poured into a vat. 
R. Once the yeast dies, it is cleared out of the wine by adding bentonite which clings to the yeasties and other bad things and then settles to the bottom of the carboy, ultimately resulting in an unencumbered wine ready to age or bottle. 
S. The fermentation process is where the grape juice becomes wine when special yeast, added to the juice, converts the natural sugars into alcohol. 
T. During the settling, the grape sediment separates from the juice and settles to the bottom of the vat and is transferred, usually by siphon, into different vats and allowed to settle further. 
U. After picking grapes it is necessary to crush them into a mass of pulp and juice called "must". 
25341

Although fixed-wing aircraft receive great attention by many historians, helicopter flight was the first envisioned by humanity. 
Q. Many extraordinary models followed by an ever increasing number of great thinkers, but all the pioneers were missing two essentials: a true understanding of the nature of lift and an adequate engine. 
R. The great breakthrough came at the end of the nineteenth century. 
S. In fact, the ancient Chinese were playing with a hand-spun toy that rose upward when revolved rapidly and, as early as the mid 1500's, Leonardo Da Vinci had used his fertile mind to make drawings of a machine that we now know as the helicopter. 
T. His design, like many others to follow, would, however, work theoretically but would have been impractical in full-sized form. 
U. The internal combustion engine made it possible for the pioneers to develop full-sized models with an adequate power source. 
34125

Oil has been known about and used since ancient times and has been mentioned by most ancient historians since the time of Herodotus.   
Q. Oil flows from natural springs in many localities and it was obtained from such springs in what is now Western Pennsylvania by the Seneca Indians, who also used it for medicinal purposes.   
R. It was used, however, chiefly as a liniment or medicine, not as a fuel, and the Bible refers to pitch being used for building purposes - cementing walls - in Babylon. 
S. The area quickly boomed and the modern oil industry was born with Texas and Oklahoma later becoming the centers of US production. 
T. Following World War II the Middle East became a major supplier for US use as well. 
U. The first oil well was drilled in that region by Edwin Drake in 1859; the well was 69 feet deep and produced 15 barrels a day. 
21453

Although Shackleton never did reach the South Pole, he is more fondly remembered than the explorers who did. 
Q. Writing to his wife Emily, he quipped, "I thought you'd rather have a live donkey than a dead lion." 
R. In 1907, Shackleton and the British Antarctic Expedition set sail in the Nimrod for the Ross Sea. 
S. Indeed, Shackleton earned the admiration of generations of explorers by making the agonizing decision to turn back within 97 miles of the pole rather than risk the lives of his men. 
T. Shackleton, with Jameson Adams, Frank Wild, and Eric Marshall, failed to reach the pole but set a record for going the farthest south at that time, reaching 88º23'S. 
U. Their goal: to trek with the aid of ponies to the South Pole along the Great Beardmore Glacier. 
51432

In the late nineteenth century, a German biochemist found the nucleic acids, long-chain polymers of nucleotides, were made up of sugar, phosphoric acid, and several nitrogen-containing bases.  
Q. Scientists still needed to figure out this molecule's structure to be sure, and to understand how it worked.  
R. Later it was found that the sugar in nucleic acid can be ribose or deoxyribose, giving two forms: RNA and DNA.  
S. Most people at the time thought the gene would be protein, not nucleic acid, but by the late 1940s, DNA was largely accepted as the genetic molecule.  
T. In 1943, American Oswald Avery proved that DNA carries genetic information.  
U. He even suggested DNA might actually be the gene.  
51423

We invited 12 women to come to the lab to play bridge with one another.  
Q. We did not find such a T cell increase in the blood samples of the control women who did not play bridge, but sat listening to quiet music during the time the others were playing bridge.  
R. The before and after data were exciting to us because we found a significant increase in their CD4-positive T lymphocytes.   
S. Before they started playing, we took blood samples from them to measure the initial level of their T cells.   
T. We were terribly thrilled with these results because, clearly, the cerebral cortex has a role in controlling the immune system, and our present task is to find ways to "educate" the critical dorsolateral cortex and keep our immune systems healthy.  
U. Then we took blood from them after they had been playing for an hour and a half.   
43152

This mission to London  marked the beginning of Bolivar’s twenty-year career as a public servant on behalf of freedom and independence.   
Q. The constitution for the new republic provided for a federal structure, the legal equality of citizens of all races, and the abolition of clerical and military privileges.   
R. Bolívar returned from London in June, 1811, and spoke to the Patriotic Society in favor of independence.   
S. On July 5, 1811, the Patriotic Society of Caracas declared independence and founded the first republic of Venezuela.   
T. In March, 1812, a small Spanish force arrived from Puerto Rico, and the royalists helped them combat the republican army, which surrendered, forcing Bolívar to escape to New Granada to avoid prison.  
U. Yet, in reality, it did little for non-whites: most  were excluded from voting by a property qualification, slavery was retained, and the llaneros, the free-ranging horsemen of the plains, were alienated by policies designed to bring the llanos (plains) under private ownership.   
31254

Heresies (from L. haeresis, sect, school of belief) were a problem for the Church from the beginning.  
Q. Efforts to suppress these heresies were initially ad hoc.   
R. Beginning in the 12th century, Church Councils required secular rulers to prosecute heretics.   
S. But in the Middle Ages a permanent structure came into being to deal with the problem.          
T. In 1231, Pope Gregory IX published a decree which called for life imprisonment with salutary penance for the heretic who had confessed and repented and capital punishment for those who persisted.   
U. In the early centuries there were the Arians and Manicheans; in the Middle Ages there were the Cathari and Waldenses; and in the Renaissance there were the Hussites, Lutherans, Calvinists, and Rosicrucians.   
24351

During the eighteenth century, the market in Europe and America for tea, a new drink in the West, expanded greatly.  
Q. To remedy the situation, the foreigners developed a third-party trade, exchanging their merchandise in India and Southeast Asia for raw materials and semi-processed goods, which found a ready market in Guangzhou.   
R. But China, still in its preindustrial stage, wanted little that the West had to offer, causing the Westerners, mostly British, to incur an unfavorable balance of trade.  
S. By the early nineteenth century, raw cotton and opium from India had become the staple British imports into China, in spite of the fact that opium was prohibited entry by imperial decree.  
T. The opium traffic was made possible through the connivance of profit-seeking merchants and a corrupt bureaucracy.   
U. Additionally, there was a continuing demand for Chinese silk and porcelain.  
32451

In 1802 Heinrich Olbers theorized that the asteroid belt was formed by an ancient planet exploding. 
Q. The large amount of energy that would have been required to destroy a planet, combined with the belt’s low combined mass tends to destroy that theory.   
R. This planet either suffered an internal explosion or a cometary impact many million years ago.  
S. Today it is believed that the planets were formed by a process of accretion and the asteroid belt are just pieces that have never joined a planet.  
T. It is believed that they were formed by the same process of accretion.   
U. The larger asteroids are on the verge of being classified as dwarf planets.  
21354

Marshall graduated first in his class from the Howard University School of Law in 1933.  
Q. Early in his career, as a young lawyer, he fought the State of Maryland for equal pay for black schoolteachers who were receiving the same salary as janitors.   
R. He argued many successful cases before the U.S. Supreme Court (wining 29 of 32 cases), including Smith v. Allwright in 1944, Shelly v. Kraemer in 1948, Sweatt v. Painter in 1950, and McLaurin v. Oklahoma State Regents in 1950.   
S. Then, at the age of 32, Marshall won his first U.S. Supreme Court Case, Chambers v. Florida, and later that year, he was named chief counsel for the NAACP.   
T. By 1936, he established a private practice in Baltimore where he began working with the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP).   
U. But, it wasn’t until 1954, when he argued Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka, in which the U.S. Supreme Court struck down the “Separate but Equal” doctrine, thus ending legalized segregation of education institutions.  
14325

Ian Condry, who teaches Japanese culture at MIT, says "Sukiyaki" transcended language because it hit an emotional nerve.  
Q. The song spent three weeks at the top of the Billboard charts in June 1963 and was already a huge hit in Japan before its American debut.  
R. "1964 was the Tokyo Olympics, and Japan's economy was expanding globally and so, in some ways, the song is kind of an interesting metaphor for that global expansion of Japan on the world scene."  
S. "1963 was when Japan was returning to the world scene after the destruction of WWII," Condry says.  
T. But what most listeners in the U.S. probably didn't realize was how it symbolized Japan's return to the world stage.  
U. Kyu Sakamoto was the face of this new postwar Japan: a clean-cut, 21-year-old pop idol. 
14325

In San Jose Chavez met a local priest, Father Donald McDonnell, who introduced him to the writings of St. Francis and Mahatma Gandhi, and the idea that non-violence could be an active force for positive change.  
Q. The man who would teach Cesar Chavez how to put theory into practice arrived in San Jose in 1953.   
R. CSO helped its members with immigration and tax problems, and taught them how to organize to deal with problems like police violence and discrimination.   
S. To Chavez, Ross’ simple rules for organizing were nothing short of revolutionary.  
T. Fred Ross was an organizer in San Jose to recruit members for the Community Service Organization.  
U. But he still needed to learn how to put these principles into action.  
24531

Fencing is probably one of the oldest games in existence. 
S. Under the Germanic influence the duel spread all over Christendom.   
Q. The Germanic tribes which swarmed over the Empire at the fall of Rome were perhaps the earliest people to recognize combat with swords as a means of settling questions of justice or of vindicating a grievance.  
R. It sprang directly from the duel, and dueling has been extant as long as there has been war.  
T. Even as early as the reign of Charlemagne it was admitted as material proof in the judgments of God. 
U. In the old days there were duels between two persons, and often between two whole armies, depending on the conditions of war.   
43152

Prehistoric people would have gazed upon herds of gazelle and other wild animals; gently flowing rivers, which attracted migrating geese and ducks; fruit and nut trees; and rippling fields of wild barley and wild wheat varieties such as emmer and einkorn.  
Q. Indeed, Gobekli Tepe sits at the northern edge of the Fertile Crescent—an arc of mild climate and arable land from the Persian Gulf to present-day Lebanon, Israel, Jordan and Egypt.   
R. "This area was like a paradise," says Schmidt, a member of the German Archaeological Institute.  
S. Such weather and fertile soil would have attracted hunter-gatherers from Africa and the Levant.   
T. This is clearly the earliest "cathedral on a hill" that archeologists have yet to find.  
U. And partly because Schmidt has found no evidence that people permanently resided on the summit of Gobekli Tepe itself, he believes this was a place of worship on an unprecedented scale.  
21354

Water enters the root and is transported up to the leaves through specialized plant cells known as xylem (pronounces zigh-lem).  
Q. Cottonwood trees, for example, will lose 100 gallons of water per hour during hot desert days.  
R. Land plants must guard against drying out (desiccation) and so have evolved specialized structures known as stomata to allow gas to enter and leave the leaf.  
S. Carbon dioxide cannot pass through the protective waxy layer covering the leaf (cuticle), but it can enter the leaf through these openings (the stoma; plural = stomata; Greek for hole) flanked by two guard cells.  
T. Unfortunately for the plant, while these gases are moving between the inside and outside of the leaf, a great deal of water is also lost.  
U. Likewise, oxygen produced during photosynthesis can only pass out of the leaf through the opened stomata.  
51243

At the tender age of 24, Jim Thorpe sailed with the American Olympic team to Stockholm, Sweden for the 1912 Olympic Games.  
Q. At the Olympics, he blew away the competition in both the pentathlon and the decathlon and set records that would stand for decades.   
R. Thorpe, never a man to stand on ceremony, answered simply and honestly, "Thanks King."   
S. King Gustav V, himself, presented Thorpe with his gold medals for his accomplishments.   
T. Remarkably, he was so dedicated he even trained aboard the ship on the journey across the sea.   
U. As stated by Bob Berontas: "Before Thorpe could walk away, the king grabbed his hand and uttered the sentence that was to follow him for the rest of his life.’Sir,' he declared, 'you are the greatest athlete in the world.'"   
25314

After a move to New York and a stint with the Kiernan News Agency in 1882, Charles Dow started Dow Jones & Co. with two partners, Edward Jones and Charles Bergstresser.  
Q. Dow's publication, therefore, leveled the playing field between the Wall Street elite and the individual investor.  
R. Information about a company's balance sheet was, in fact, rarely published, with management attempting to hide and obscure the full value of their company for fear of a takeover.   
S. Their first publication was a two-page daily called the Customer's Afternoon Letter started in early 1883, but by 1889 it had evolved into the Wall Street Journal.   
T. The Letter not only reported consolidated stock tables, but also made public quarterly and annual information regarding company financials -- something that only insiders had available to them before this.   
U. The Customer's Afternoon Letter was nothing short of revolutionary, since in Dow's time, consolidated stock tables published every day did not exist.   
53142

Coffee plants grow wild in Ethiopia and were probably used by nomadic tribes for thousands of years.   
Q. "It actually had a major impact on the rise of business in Europe." Pendergrast says.   
R. Within another 150 years, it took Europe by storm.    
S. "Then it really took off," relates historian Mark Pendergrast  — author of Uncommon Grounds: The History of Coffee and How It Transformed Our World.  
T. By the 1500s, he says, the drink had spread to coffeehouses across the Arab world.   
U. However, it wasn't until the 1400s that people figured out they could roast its seeds.  
54231

Giacomo Leopardi, one of the greatest Italian poets of all time, was born in Recanati, a town not far from the Adriatic coast. 
Q. He mastered Hebrew, Latin, Greek, and modern languages; completed numerous translations from the classics; wrote several philological works, a history of astronomy, and a hymn to Neptune in Greek which he pretended to have discovered in an ancient manuscript.  
R. By the time he was nineteen years old he had amassed an amazing store of knowledge, but he had also compromised his health: he began suffering from nervous disorders, his eyesight weakened, he became a hunchback.  
S. At the age of twelve Giacomo was so erudite that his private ecclesiastical tutor had to admit that his own scholarship was inferior to his pupil's and that consequently there was nothing more he could teach him.   
T. Sadly he realized that he had allowed his youth to pass, that henceforth his life could be only unhappy, and that above all, being so frail and unattractive, a woman would probably never fall in love with him.   
U. Devoured by an insatiable craving for learning, Giacomo then resolved to continue his studies alone, and for the next seven years, completely unsupervised, spent most of the day and part of the night poring over the books of the family palace's twelve-thousand volume library.   
34152

Sukarno was born June 6, 1901 in Surabaja, Java of Javanese and Balinese parents.   
Q. He went to a secondary school in which most of the students were Dutch.  
R. He thus represented a mixture of the Islamic Javanese and Hindu Balinese Malay subcultures.   
S. But, despite the practical degree which could ensure him a comfortable life, he found his true calling was as an orator and politician, since he found he could profoundly move crowds with his oratory.  
T. He not only received a good education but became imbued, at this school, with a fierce desire for Indonesian independence.  
U. In 1927 he received a degree in civil engineering from the Bandung Technical Institute and became an architect.   
21534

At the end of World War Two, the Viet Minh announced Vietnamese independence. 
Q. He was determined, however, to reunite Vietnam. 
R. The French refused to relinquish their former colony, however, and in 1946, war broke out. 
S. After eight years of war, the French were defeated and forced to agree to peace talks in Geneva. 
T. By the early 1960s, North Vietnamese-backed guerrillas, the Vietcong, were attacking the South Vietnamese military. 
U. The country was then split into a communist north and non-communist south and Ho Chi Minh became president of North Vietnam. 
41253

Symptoms of Seasonal Affective Disorder usually begin in October or November and subside in March or April.   
Q. Regardless of the time of onset, most patients don’t feel fully “back to normal” until early May.    
R. Treatment planning, in fact, needs to match the severity of the condition for the individual. 
S. Depressions are usually mild to moderate, but they can be severe.    
T. Safety is the first consideration in all assessment of depression, as suicide can be a risk for more severe depressive symptoms.  
U. Some patients begin to “slump” as early as August, while others remain well until January. 
24351

At that time, the early 1960s, long hair on a man was considered absolutely outrageous. 
Q. Indeed, it’s no coincidence that they arrived at the time in which the women’s movement was just beginning in the culture.   
R. Very quickly the Beatles changed the way men looked, the way men thought about the way they looked and, ultimately, our ideals of masculinity.   
S. The Beatles also galvanized women.   
T. After the Beatles came to America, that model was washed out forever.  
U. Before they arrived, the model for maleness in the culture, for lack of a better term, consisted of people like John Wayne and Gary Cooper.  
51432

Chinese script was used by the intelligentsia of the country, but being of foreign origin, it could not fully express the words and meaning of Korean thoughts and spoken language.   
Q. King Sejong felt great sympathy for the people. 
R. What he envisioned was a set of letters that was uniquely Korean and easily learnable, rendering it accessible and usable for the common people. 
S. Therefore, common people with legitimate complaints had no way of submitting their grievances to the appropriate authorities, other than through oral communication. 
T. Furthermore, they had no way to record for posterity the agricultural wisdom and knowledge they had gained through years of experience. 
U. As a revolutionary ruler strongly dedicated to national identity and cultural independence, he immediately searched for solutions. 
35124

Before there was money, as we know it, there was barter. 
Q. Gradually, therefore, people began exchanging items that had no intrinsic value, but which had only agreed-upon or symbolic value. 
R. Early in pre-history, some people made a fundamental shift in what they chose to use for proto-money.   
S. Forms of proto-money included cacao beans for Aztecs, butter for Norwegians and early U.S. colonists used animal hides (settlers traded deer hides -- the origin of our modern word for money: "bucks").   
T. Some items, such as arrowheads, salt and animal hides, were useful in and of themselves and therefore not perfect as money.   
U. People, however, developed forms of proto-money -- the use of commodities that everyone agreed to accept in trade. 
53241

Maria agreed to work as a private tutor, setting aside money to pay Bronya's tuition at medical school and as soon as Bronya could, she would help subsidize Maria's education. 
Q. For the next three years she worked as a well-paid governess.   
R. After two years of teaching various subjects to children from wealthy families, Maria realized she was not saving money efficiently enough. 
S. Her charges were the children of an agriculturist who ran a beet-sugar factory in a village 150 kilometers north of Warsaw.   
T. He encouraged his older daughter to assist Maria, even though he knew the czarist authorities equated such activity with treason.  
U. Maria felt a kinship with her employer when he permitted her in her spare time to teach the illiterate children of his peasant laborers.   
21354

One of the liver's most important functions is to "detoxify" the blood.  
Q. Ammonia, which is a byproduct of protein metabolism, may accumulate and this may make patients with very poor liver function feel confusion or changes in their mental state.  
R. This blood is full of nutrients but also contains toxins and other chemicals that the liver cleans up before they enter the body's circulation.  
S. In a case of very severe disease, liver failure can even cause a coma and brain swelling.  
T. The liver receives blood from the intestine.  
U. In patients with very poor liver function, the liver may not be able to clean up the blood.  
42513

Henry’s men waited for the French to begin the attack but there was no movement in the opposing army. 
Q. Finally Henry, urged to begin the battle by his commanders, gave the command “Forward banners” and the army advanced with trumpets blaring. 
R. It might have been the case  that there was inadequate overall command and no central decision made when to commence the assault or it might have been that the French were waiting for further contingents to arrive and take their station. 
S. Now, halted within the confines of the two woods, Henry directed parties of archers and men-at-arms to move through the trees nearer to the French. 
T. Once in arrow range of the French, Henry gave the command to halt and the divisions closed up, the archers setting their pointed staves in the ground forming a fence leaning outwards towards the French. 
U. Then, on the king’s signal the English archers opened a devastating fire on the compact mass of French knights and men-at-arms. 
21435

To examine the power of reciprocity, let us look at an experiment done by Cornell University Professor, Dennis Regan. 
Q. Later on, after the “task” was over, the hired participant asked his fellow participant for a favor: he was selling raffle tickets, and if he sold the most, he would win a prize. 
R. In his study, two participants were put into a room to complete a task and one of the participants (hired by the professor) left the room during a two minute break and returned with a pair of colas (one for himself, and one for the other participant). 
S. The sole act of the initial favor increased the participant's purchasing behavior by 100%.   
T. He explained: “I asked the experimenter if I could get myself a Coke, and he said it was okay, so I bought one for you too.”   
U. The participants who had received the cola ended up buying 2 times as many raffle tickets as those who, in other versions of the experiment, hadn’t received anything from a participant who returned with only one cola for himself. 
31524

Siegfried, the hero of the 13th century epic poem "The Nibelungenlied," was a mighty warrior worthy of the favor of the Nordic gods.  
Q. Desirous of fame, Siegfried is convinced by Regin to go the wasteland of Gnitahead and kill the dragon Fafnir.  
R. Having thus armed his hunter, Regin accompanies Siegfried to Gnitahead and promises to support and advise him during the battle with the dragon. 
S. Regin even takes the broken pieces of Gram, the sword of Siegfried's father, and reforges it so that Siegfried will have a weapon potent enough for dragon slaying. 
T. Although suspicious of Regin, Siegfried remains motivated to go on the dangerous quest.  
U. Although strong and brave, Siegfried was aided in the task of slaying the dragon Fafnir by the scheming dwarf Regin.  
24351

Mansa Musa is mostly remembered for his extravagant hajj, or pilgrimage, to Mecca with, according to the Arab historian al-Umari, 100 camel-loads of gold, each weighing 300 lbs.; 500 slaves, each carrying a 4 lb. gold staff; thousands of his subjects; as well as his senior wife, with her 500 attendants.  
Q. With his lavish spending and generosity in Cairo and Mecca, however, he ran out of money and had to borrow at usurious rates of interest for the return trip.   
R. Additionally, Al-Umari states that Mansa Musa and his retinue "gave out so much gold that they depressed its value in Egypt and caused its value to fall."   
S. In 1339, for instance, Mali appeared on a "Map of the World" and in 1367, another map of the world showed a road leading from North Africa through the Atlas Mountains into the Western Sudan.   
T. However, attention should be focused on the effects of the hajj, rather than the pilgrimage itself.   
U. The hajj planted Mali in men's minds and its riches fired up the imagination as El Dorado did later.   
12534

In May 1919, Atatürk began a nationalist revolution in Anatolia, organizing resistance to the peace settlement imposed on Turkey by the victorious Allies. 
Q. He established a single party regime that lasted almost without interruption until 1945.  
R. This was particularly focused on resisting Greek attempts to seize Smyrna and its hinterland. 
S. Thus, in 1921, Atatürk established a provisional government in Ankara. 
T. Indeed, victory over the Greeks finally enabled him to secure revision of the  peace settlement in the Treaty of Lausanne. 
U. The following year the Ottoman Sultanate was formally abolished and, in 1923, Turkey became a secular republic with Atatürk as its president.    
51324

The early 1920s found social patterns in chaos.  
Q. Among these modernists, intellectual experimentation flourished.   
R. On the one hand, traditionalists, the older Victorians, worried that everything valuable was ending.   
S. Americans danced to the sound of the Jazz Age, showed their contempt for alcoholic prohibition, debated abstract art and Freudian theories.   
T. Yet, in a response to the new social patterns set in motion by modernism, a wave of revivalism developed, becoming especially strong in the American South.   
U. Younger modernists, however, no longer asked whether society would approve of their behavior, only whether their behavior met the approval of their intellect.   
31452

Joseph Priestley (1733-1804) was a Unitarian minister, teacher, author and natural philosopher from Yorkshire.  
Q. He discovered that heating this compound produced a gas in which a candle would burn more brightly and a mouse could live four times as long compared to the normal atmosphere: this gas was oxygen. 
R. In one of these experiments, Priestley used a magnifying glass to focus the sun's rays on a sample of the compound mercury (ll) oxide. 
S. From 1773 to 1780 he was employed as librarian and literary companion to the Earl of Shelburne, owner of Bowood House.   
T. This role gave Priestley the time and facilities to pursue his groundbreaking experiments in 'pneumatic' chemistry.  
U. Although Priestley could not accurately interpret these results using the scientific knowledge of the time, his work was later used by Antoine Lavoisier to construct the theories that now underpin modern chemistry.   
43125

"The gods condemned Sisyphus to ceaselessly roll a rock to the top of a mountain," wrote Albert Camus, "then the stone would fall back of its own weight; they thought that there is no more dreadful punishment than futile and hopeless labor."   
Q. Over and over it happens that a theory or explanation believed to be well established has to be abandoned or rethought of by researchers in the light of new findings. 
R. Half a century ago Stanley L. Miller demonstrated that amino acids and other biochemically significant compounds could be easily synthesized under conditions simulating those of the primitive atmosphere. 
S. Like Sisyphus, these researchers trying to discover the origins of life and study the earliest stages of biological evolution have an uphill quest because theories must be abandoned and rethought. 
T. Nowadays geoscientists tend to doubt that the conditions of the prebiotic environment were as reducing as Miller and others had assumed. 
U. Of all the examples, maybe one is the most famous. 
14253

When he was two years old, Joseph Merrick’s mother noticed that some areas of his skin began to change.   
Q. The right side of his head began to grow, as did his right arm and hand so that by the time he was 12 years old, Joseph's hand was so deformed as to be useless; furthermore, the growths on his skin were now large and repulsive to look at.  
R. Over the next years, Joseph left home, tried working in a factory but was abused by the workers there, and finally ended up in a freak show.  
S. Some darkened, discolored skin growths were appearing, and they began to look bumpy and rough.   
T. Furthermore, the other boys in early grade school were starting to make fun of him and as Joseph grew older, he began to look even more strange. 
U. Lumps began to grow under the boy's skin, on his neck, his chest, and the back of his head and Mary Jane Merrick began to worry about her son, Joseph. 
45132

The world's largest lizard, the Komodo dragon, has a snake-like venom in its bite which sends victims into shock and stops their blood from clotting, according to Australian research. 
Q. Fry also surgically removed a venom gland from a terminally ill Komodo at Singapore Zoo for the study, and said it contained a highly toxic poison which would induce potent stomach cramps, hypothermia and a drop in blood pressure.  
R. But magnetic resonance imagery has for the first time uncovered venom glands containing a shock-inducing poison which increases blood flow and decreases blood pressure, scientists say.  
S. Bryan Fry, a leading researcher, said this three-dimensional computer imaging comparing the Komodo's bite with that of Australia's saltwater crocodile showed it used a "grip and rip" pulling manoeuvre to tear deep wounds, similar to a shark or sabre cat. 
T. "Such a fall in blood pressure would be debilitating in conjunction with blood loss and would render the envenomed prey unable to escape," he said.  
U. It had previously been widely believed that deadly bacteria in the carnivorous lizard's mouth helped kill its prey. 
42351

The book that had made such an immediate and profound impact on Gandhi was John Ruskin’s seminal work Unto This Last.  
Q. The focus of Ruskin’s work was on the nature of economic inequality in society, which was seen to be morally wrong because it generated, in large sections of the population, deprivation and hardship.  
R. Originally a collection of four articles published in the Cornhill Magazine (London) and Harper’s (New York) in 1860, they were later published in book form.   
S. "There is no wealth but life.” Ruskin wrote, and life incorporated everybody, there were no exceptions.  
T. A copy of the work was given to Gandhi, as a gift, whilst he was practicing law as a young man in South Africa and it led to a deep reassessment of his life.  
U. The solution, he thought, was a fairer distribution of wealth to alleviate this suffering.   
31524

Celtic culture survived longer in Ireland than in continental Europe, and in many ways it still survives today.  
Q. The Romans never occupied Ireland, nor did the Anglo-Saxons who invaded Britain after the Romans withdrew in the 5th century, so Celtic culture survived more strongly in Ireland than elsewhere (partly because of hill forts).   
R. Julius Caesar conducted a successful campaign against the Gauls in 52-58 B.C., and as part of that campaign invaded Britain in 54 B.C. but was unsuccessful in conquering the island.  
S. Christianity came to Ireland in the 4th century, St. Patrick coming in 432, so that many of the Celtic cultural elements integrated with Christianity.  
T. Ninety-seven years later, in 43 A.D., the Romans invaded Britain again, pushing the Britons to the west (Wales and Cornwall) and north (Scotland).  
U. On the continent, the expanding Romans defeated various Celtic groups and subsumed their culture.   
42531

When diversity is embraced and collaboration sought, productivity and creativity can be enhanced, as Harvard education professor Todd Pittinsky has argued in Us Plus Them.  
Q. There are recent examples of such transcendence.   
R. Support for gay marriage has increased rapidly, and differences are now shrugged off in many countries as not that important, when everyone wants the same thing -- a committed relationship and possibly children.  
S. Interdependence is an even a better tribalism-buster - although mere contact doesn't erase fear and mistrust, a shared task that all parties care about replaces tribal instincts with other motivations.  
T. Research on how groups of mostly one social type treat people who are different confirmed that it takes structural change -- vastly increasing numbers and points of contact -- to overcome casual biases.  
U. One key to getting the benefits is to normalize those who are different by stressing similarities, making them not-so-different after all.  
34521

Since the early 1800s, Coney Island, “playground of the world,” has played many roles in the lives and imaginations of New Yorkers and the world. 
Q. From its beginnings as a quiet seaside town, Coney Island went on to boom years in the 1880s, as entrepreneurs rushed to stake their claims and make their fortunes.  
R. Nevertheless, Coney Island continued to provide an accessible and affordable opportunity for a diverse population, always looming large in the history of New York. 
S. The amusement parks struggled to stay afloat and Coney Island began to experience hard economic times. 
T. The area enjoyed brief stability in the late 1890's and early 1900's, the heyday of Luna Park (1903-1946), Dreamland (1904-1911) and Steeplechase Park (1897-1907, 1908-1964), Coney Island’s famed amusement parks, but with the Great Depression, Coney Island transformed once again.  
U. The area became a “Nickel Empire” of cheap amusements; a nickel paid the fare on the new subway line, and visitors were greeted by the original Nathan’s Famous, home of the five-cent hot dog.    
15423

Although consuming a little salt is essential for our physiological well-being (and for the fries to taste good), too little or too much wreaks havoc in our bodies.  
Q. When we consume too much salt, we usually excrete the excess in our urine to keep our bodily fluids isotonic.  
R. This means that every 1,000 grams of fluid contains 9 grams of salt and 991 grams of water.   
S. For humans, that magic number is 9.   
T. In medicine, fluids that have the same salinity as blood are referred to as isotonic.   
U. That's the salinity, or the weight in grams of salt dissolved in 1,000 grams of water, of human blood.  
53142

Su Wu (140 B.C.E. - 60 B.C.E.) was a diplomat and statesman during China's Han Dynasty, and a famous figure in Chinese history remembered for his faithfulness to his mission and his empire. 
Q. When they arrived at the headquarters of Chanyu Qiedihou, Su’s deputies, Zhang Sheng, and Chang Hui, hatched a plot to assassinate Chanyu Qiedihou's half-Chinese adviser Wei Lü and kidnap the Chanyu's mother.    
R. He remained there for nineteen years under the most difficult circumstances, steadfastly refusing to yield to the Xiongnu, until the Han and Xiongnu were again at peace and the Han Emperor negotiated his release.  
S. In 100 B.C.E., during a brief truce with the Xiongnu, Emperor Wu gave Su, then a Han scholar and the deputy commander of the Imperial Guards, credentials (often depicted as a staff with a banner on it) and sent him as an emissary to Xiongnu.   
T. His main responsibility was to return some Xiongnu emissaries to their home, and bring back some Han emissaries then being held captive by the Xiongnu.   
U. The Chanyu learned about the plot, killed Yu and captured Zhang, but Su, who was innocent, refused to surrender and cooperate with the Xiongnu, and was sent into exile as a shepherd in the wilderness.   
35124

Our species is an African one: Africa is where we first evolved, and where we have spent the majority of our time on Earth.  
Q. What set this in motion is uncertain, but we think it has something to do with major climatic shifts that were happening around that time—a sudden cooling in the Earth’s climate driven by the onset of one of the worst parts of the last Ice Age.   
R. According to the genetic and paleontological record, we only started to leave Africa between 60,000 and 70,000 years ago.   
S. Although earlier fossils may be found over the coming years, this is our best understanding of when and approximately where we originated.  
T. This cold snap would have made life difficult for our African ancestors, and the genetic evidence points to a sharp reduction in population size around this time, in fact, to fewer than 10,000.   
U. The earliest fossils of recognizably modern Homo sapiens appear in the fossil record at Omo Kibish in Ethiopia, around 200,000 years ago.   
43251

Against overwhelming odds, Alexander led his army to victories across the Persian territories of Asia Minor, Syria and Egypt without suffering a single defeat.  
Q. His greatest victory was at the Battle of Gaugamela, in what is now northern Iraq, in 331 BC.  
R. This was united by a common Greek language and culture, while the king himself adopted foreign customs in order to rule his millions of ethnically diverse subjects.  
S. The young king of Macedonia, leader of the Greeks, overlord of Asia Minor and pharaoh of Egypt thus became 'great king' of Persia at the age of 25.  
T. The entire area from Greece in the west, north to the Danube, south into Egypt and as far to the east as the Indian Punjab, was linked together in a vast international network of trade and commerce.   
U. Over the next eight years, in his capacity as king, commander, politician, scholar and explorer, Alexander led his army a further 11,000 miles, founding over 70 cities and creating an empire that stretched across three continents and covered around two million square miles.   
15243

The Sun Dance ceremony is the most important religious ceremony of the Plains Nations and it is the ceremony that is most misunderstood by Non Native Americans. 
Q. Among the reasons people choose to participate in the Sun Dance ritual is to thank the Creator / Great Mystery / Wakan Tanka for the blessings received, fulfilling a vow made in a crisis for help, asking for protection of loved ones in harms way, asking for physical healing of a sick family member or friend, and asking for the protection of the whole tribe or nation.  
R. While each tribe may do the ceremony in different ways, each tribe includes the smoking of the pipe, dancing, singing, drumming, experiencing of visions, and fasting.  
S. All of the reasons are non-selfish in as much the reason does not include benefits for oneself, but asks for benefits for others or is to give thanks but when the request is personal it is for help and understanding to be a better person so the individual can live a life to benefit his family and the people.  
T. Some tribes, like the Sioux, practice self-torture by the piercing of the skin on the chest or back as a personal sacrifice the individual makes for the good of all of the people of the tribe. 
U. This deeply spiritual and grueling ceremony is held at the time of the Summer Solstice and lasts from four to eight days.  
42531

Scorpions are often misunderstood. 
Q. The venom in a scorpion's stinger is the same all through a scorpion's life. 
R. Many people say that scorpions are so aggressive they will sting themselves to death, but this is not a natural behavior of scorpions in the wild.  
S. Perhaps the biggest myth is that all scorpions are deadly, and this is totally wrong. 
T. Other people say the sting of a baby scorpion is more dangerous than the sting of an adult, but again, this is false.  
U. Only a very few scorpions are potentially dangerous to people, indeed, of the 1,500 known scorpion species, only 25 have a sting potent enough to be considered potentially dangerous to humans. 
31425

Pressure and temperature within the earth increase gradually with distance below the surface. 
Q. This molten material is MAGMA, and is normally less dense than the overlying solid rock.   
R. At depths of several tens of miles the material which makes up the earth's crust (depending upon its composition) may become partially molten.  
S. The intrusive magma which has cooled and solidified is known as IGNEOUS ROCK (granite, granodiorite, diorite, gabbro).  
T. As the magma is subjected to tectonic forces, it may be squeezed upward along weak zones in the crust.  
U. This process by which magma penetrates the crustal rock is called INTRUSION.  
21534

Chopin may have been the most innovative and patriotic of composers, but he was no revolutionary. 
Q. It was not that he was particularly conservative by inclination, but he loved refinement, luxury, good manners and all the other attributes of the aristocratic society in which he thrived. 
R. Unlike most of his compatriots, however, he quickly accommodated himself to the hedonistic regime of King Louis-Philippe (r. 1830-48).  
S. He carried on to Paris, where he was to have gone anyway, and there manifested his solidarity with his fellow Poles by choosing a life of exile. 
T. In November 1830, when revolution broke out on the streets of Warsaw and the Kingdom of Poland created by the Congress of Vienna attempted to throw off the Russian yoke, the 20-year-old composer was in Vienna on the first leg of a tour of Europe.  
U. And, although he spent half of his life as a political exile, this was largely the result of circumstance. 
54321

In 1645, the settlement of Vlissengen (known today as Flushing, Queens) became part of New Netherland.  
Q. Today, the Flushing Remonstrance is regarded as the precursor to the U.S. Constitution’s provision on freedom of religion in the Bill of Rights.  
R. A Flushing colonist held a Quaker meeting in his home, and he was fined and banished.  
S. Consequently, Peter Stuyvesant, the governor of New Netherland, forbade colonists from allowing Quaker meetings to be held in any home.  
T. Largely settled by English families, Vlissengen proved to be fertile ground for Quakers who were persecuted at home in England and Quaker religious teachings spread throughout Vlissengen and Long Island, threatening the dominance of the Dutch Reformed Church in New Netherland.  
U. Flushing citizens protested, and in 1657 they wrote a demand for religious freedom that is today known as the Flushing Remonstrance.   
53214

Dr. James Naismith is known world-wide as the inventor of basketball.   
Q. Naismith wanted to create a game of skill for the students instead of one that relied solely on strength and he needed a game that could be played indoors in a relatively small space.   
R. The concept of basketball was born from Naismith's school days in the area where he played a simple child's game known as duck-on-a-rock outside his one-room schoolhouse, which involved attempting to knock a "duck" off the top of a large rock by tossing another rock at it.   
S. The first game was played with a soccer ball and two peach baskets used as goals.   
T. In Springfield, Naismith was faced with the problem of finding a sport that was suitable for play inside during the Massachusetts winter for the students at the School for Christian Workers.  
U. After studying at McGill University and serving as McGill's Athletic Director, James Naismith moved on to the YMCA Training School in Springfield, Massachusetts, USA in 1891, where the sport of basketball was born.    
41532

A glacier is essentially a huge mass of ice resting on land or floating in the sea next to land.  
Q. Moving extremely slowly, a glacier acts similarly to an immense river of ice, often merging with other glaciers in a stream-like manner.  
R. It is so cold in these regions that when a snowflake hits the ground it does not melt, but instead combines with other snowflakes to form larger grains of ice.   
S. A glacier cannot, however, form unless is it above the snowline, the lowest elevation at which snow can survive year round.  
T. As more and more snow accumulates, mounting weight and pressure squeeze these grains of ice together to form a glacier.   
U. Regions with continuous snowfall and constant freezing temperatures foster the development of these frozen rivers.  
13542

Sundews are sticky flypaper plants.  
Q. Insects that land on the leaves stick fast and are digested.   
R. The glands exude attractive nectar, adhesive compounds, and digestive enzymes.   
S. Often nearby glandular tentacles are stimulated and also adhere to the insect, and on many species the entire leaf coils around the prey.   
T. They bear long tentacles on their leaves, and these stalks are tipped with glands which are often brightly colored.  
U. These motions are usually slow, taking minutes or hours to occur.  
32415

The general term for the period of inactivity experienced by some mammals in winter is “dormancy,” which includes more specific terms such as “hibernation” and “torpor.”   
Q. True hibernation means that an animal’s metabolism turns off to the point that its body temperature nearly matches that of the environment around it.   
R. During this time, an animal's heart rate, breathing rate and metabolism slow down considerably.   
S. And in winter, this means that body temperatures can drop to nearly freezing.   
T. Contrary to popular belief, however, most of the mammals that hole up for the winter do not actually hibernate.   
U. The term hibernation applies to only a very small portion of mammals - for instance, a few species of bats and some rodents like the marmot.   
41523

All animals function - to some degree - on instinct: from the tiniest slug, to the largest elephant, to the brainiest human, we all are inherently inclined to perform certain behaviors.  
Q. This is an innate behavior that is triggered by some sort of sign stimulus and - once initiated - will run to completion.   
R. However, Konrad Lorenz discovered that it will complete this action even if the egg is removed during the behavior: the goose will simply continue with the behavior as if the egg was still there.  
S. If an egg is displaced from the nest, the bird will reflexively roll the egg back to the nest with its beak.   
T. One of the best known examples is the behavior of the nesting Graylag Goose.   
U. The simplest form of instinct is a fixed-action-pattern.  
25431

Monarchs must reach their destination before it gets too cold or else they risk death. 
Q. Furthermore, Monarch larvae's only food source—milkweed—has been destroyed by people who consider it a harmful weed.   
R. Much of their spring and summer habitat in the U.S. has been ruined by new roads, housing developments, and expanding agriculture.   
S. But cold weather is far from their greatest threat.   
T. Pesticides and herbicides also threaten milkweed, nectaring plants on which the adults feed, and the monarchs themselves.  
U. Habitat destruction and harm to their food sources imperil this phenomenal migration.  
43152

The human body regulates temperature by keeping a tight balance between heat gain and heat loss. 
Q. Normal core temperature at rest varies between 36.5 and 37.5 °Celsius (°C), which is 97.7 to 99.5 °Fahrenheit (°F).   
R. The hypothalamus responds to various temperature receptors located throughout the body and makes physiological adjustments to maintain a constant core temperature.  
S. This normal core temperature is regulated by the hypothalamus (in the brain), which is often called the body’s thermostat.   
T. Humans regulate heat generation and preservation to maintain internal body temperature or core temperature.   
U. Your temperature regulation system is more analogous, however, to the operation of a home furnace, as opposed to the function of an air conditioner.   
35421

In the 10 years following the unveiling of The Night Watch, Rembrandt's overall artistic output diminished drastically and he produced no painted portraits; either he received no portrait commissions or he stopped accepting such commissions.  
Q. It has, therefore, been put forth that Rembrandt's crisis may have been purely an artistic one: that he had seen his methods stretched to their practical limits.  
R. Speculation about what happened after The Night Watch has contributed to the "Rembrandt myth," according to which the artist became largely misunderstood and was ignored.  
S. There is also no evidence that he was ever "ignored," although he was often the target of his contemporary critics' barbs.  
T. Often also blamed for Rembrandt's supposed downfall are the death of his wife and the supposed rejection of The Night Watch by those who commissioned it.   
U. But modern research has found no evidence that the painting was rejected or that Rembrandt experienced deep devastation upon his wife's death.   
51423

Prior to 1760 the manufacture of textiles occurred in the home, by people who gave part of their time to it.  
Q. It was a tedious process from raw material to finished product.   
R. Next, it was spun into thread which was woven into cloth.  
S. In the case of woolen cloth, the wool had to be sorted, cleaned and dyed.   
T. Subsequent processes were performed upon the cloth to change the texture or the color of the woolen cloth.   
U. Then the wool was carded and combed.  
14253

An eye-level angle is the one in which the camera is placed at the subject’s height, so if the actor is looking at the lens, he won’t have to look up or down. 
Q. They often have no dramatic power whatsoever, thus they are ideal for romantic comedies and news casting.  
R. Low angles are captured from a camera placed below the actor’s eyes, looking up at him.  
S. In a high angle, conversely, the camera is above the subject, looking down, so this position makes characters look weak, submissive, or frightened.   
T. Eyelevel shots are incredibly common because they are neutral.  
U. Low angles make characters look dominant, aggressive, or ominous.   
23514

Octopuses have the largest brains of any invertebrate.  
Q. Another measure of intelligence the fact that you can count neurons: the common octopus has about 130 million of them in its brain, whereas a human has 100 billion.  
R. The average is the size of a walnut—as big as the brain of the famous African gray parrot, Alex, who learned to use more than one hundred spoken words meaningfully, which means it's proportionally bigger than the brains of most of the largest dinosaurs.  
S. For example, researchers who cut off an octopus’s arm (which the octopus can regrow) discovered that not only does the arm crawl away on its own, but if the arm meets a food item, it seizes it—and tries to pass it to where the mouth would be if the arm were still connected to its body.   
T. But this is where things get weird, because three-fifths of an octopus’s neurons are not in the brain; they’re in its arms.  
U. “It is as if each arm has a mind of its own,” says Peter Godfrey-Smith, a diver, professor of philosophy at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York, and an admirer of octopuses.  
21534

In Keynes' theory, one person's spending goes towards another person's earnings, and when that person spends his or her earnings, he or she is, in effect, supporting another person's earnings. 
Q. Keynes' solution to this poor economic state was to "prime the pump," meaning he argued that the government should step in to increase spending, either by increasing the money supply or by actually buying things itself.      
R. This cycle continues on and helps support a normal, functioning economy.    
S. During the Great Depression, however, this was not a popular solution and it is said that the massive defense spending that United States president Franklin Delano Roosevelt initiated during World War II helped revive the U.S. economy.  
T. Under Keynes' theory, this stopped the circular flow of money, keeping the economy at a standstill.  
U. When the Great Depression hit, people's natural reaction was to hoard their money.    
41532

On March 5, 2013 lawmakers reintroduced a resolution (2013 CONG US SCON 5) seeking a posthumous pardon from President Obama on behalf of former boxing champion Jack Johnson.  
Q. The defeat of Jeffries led to race riots nationwide in which numerous blacks were murdered.  
R. Johnson was convicted and sentenced to a year and a day in prison.  
S. In 1912, while married to a white woman named Lucille Cameron, Johnson was arrested by federal marshals and charged with violating the Mann Act (18 U.S.C. 2421) for crossing state lines with Belle Schreiber for "immoral" purposes.  
T. For those unfamiliar with Johnson, he became boxing’s first African-American heavyweight champion after defeating Tommy Burns in 1908.  
U. However, it wasn’t until Johnson retained his title by defeating all-time great Jim Jeffries in 1910 that he truly drew the ire of white society.  
35412

On February 22, 1876, Anne and her brother Jimmie were sent to the state almshouse in Tewksbury, Massachusetts.  
Q. Anne spent four years at Tewksbury, enduring the grief of her brother's death and the disappointment of two unsuccessful eye operations.  
R. Jimmie, who was younger than Anne and had been born with a tubercular hip, died a short time later. 
S. At Perkins, in October 1880, Anne finally began her academic education—quickly learning to read and write as well as learning how to use the manual alphabet in order to communicate with a friend who was deaf as well as blind.  
T. Then, as a result of her direct plea to a state official who had come to inspect the Tewksbury almshouse, she was allowed to leave and enroll in the Perkins School for the Blind in Boston, Massachusetts.  
U. That particular skill opened the door to her future and a life of remarkable achievements, notably her work tutoring the blind, deaf, and mute Helen Keller.  
21435

In 1967 Ellsberg became a member of the McNamara Study Group that in 1968 produced the classified  History of Decision Making in Vietnam, 1945 - 1968.  
Q. Ellsberg, disillusioned with the progress of the war, believed this document should be made available to the public and gave a copy of what later became known as the Pentagon Papers to Senator William Fulbright.   
R. President Richard Nixon then made attempts to prevent anymore extracts from the Pentagon Papers from being published, yet the Supreme Court ruled against Nixon and Justice Hugo Black commented that the Times "should be commended for serving the purpose that the Founding Fathers saw so clearly".  
S. However, he refused to do anything with the document, so Ellsberg gave a copy to Phil Geyelin of the Washington Post newspaper, yet the editors decided against publishing the contents of the document.   
T. This included information that President Eisenhower had made a secret commitment to help the French defeat the rebellion in Vietnam and that President John F. Kennedy had, essentially, turned this commitment into a war by using a secret "provocation strategy" that ultimately led to President Lyndon Johnson expanding the war after the Gulf of Tonkin incident.   
U. Ellsberg now went to the New York Times and they began publishing extracts from the document on 13th June, 1971.   
15243

The legendary great white shark is far more fearsome in our imaginations than in reality.  
Q. As scientific research on these elusive predators increases, their image as mindless killing machines is beginning to fade.  
R. However, most of these are not fatal.    
S. It's not a terribly comforting distinction, but it does indicate that humans are not actually on the great white's menu.  
T. It's true that of the 100-plus annual shark attacks worldwide, fully one-third to one-half are attributable to great whites.   
U. Indeed, new research finds that great whites, who are naturally curious, are "sample biting" then releasing their victims rather than preying on humans.   
13524

As President Park Chung Hee sought constitutional revisions in 1969 to allow himself to run for a third term, Kim Dae-jung gave an address against the scheme in an outdoor rally, and he was widely acclaimed for his vision and courage.  
Q. A heavily-loaded truck rammed into his car, seriously injuring him and his two aides.   
R. Despite the obstructionist tactics and illegal electioneering practices of the ruling party, he garnered over 46 per cent of the votes cast.  
S. He was chosen the presidential candidate of the New Democratic Party in 1971, running against the all-powerful incumbent, Park Chung Hee.   
T. During the Assembly election campaign that soon followed the presidential vote, opposition leader Kim experienced what was to be the first of at least five attempts on his life by his political foes.  
U. President Kim  suffered from the leg injury incurred in this 'accident' until his death in 2009.  
42135

A large body of evidence from molecular, cellular and human studies suggests that lithium may enhance synaptic plasticity, which may be associated with its therapeutic efficacy.  
Q. Following 4 week lithium or control chow feeding, animals were decapitated, the hippocampi were prepared and stained using a rapid Golgi staining technique and the amount and distribution of the dendritic branching was evaluated using Sholl analyses (method of concentric circles).   
R. In area CA1, the same treatment also increased the number of dendritic branches in the proximal half of apical dendritic trees of CA1 pyramidal cells and reduced branching in the distal half of apical dendritic trees but had no effect on basilar dendritic trees.  
S. In the DG, lithium treatment increased the amount and distribution of dendritic branches in the proximal half of dendritic trees of the granule cells and reduced branching in the distal half.   
T. To determine whether lithium treatment alters structural synaptic plasticity, this study examined the effect of 4 week lithium treatment on the amount and distribution of dendrites in the dentate gyrus (DG) and hippocampal area CA1 of young adult rats.   
U. However, only a small number of studies have directly assessed this.   
35421

Nobunaga first heard of Yasuke when the news reached him in 1581 of the great crush that had occurred when Valignano had brought him to Kyoto where his skin color and height attracted a huge crowd.  
Q. Nobunaga ordered the Jesuit to bring Yasuke to his court so that he could see this sensation in the flesh.  
R. Ultimately Nobunaga became so fond of Yasuke that he was given the honor of being made a member of the samurai class, a rare honor among foreigners.  
S. Upon seeing Yasuke Nobunaga allegedly ordered him stripped to the waist and scrubbed, believing that his skin was painted.  
T. Nobunaga was further intrigued by the fact that Yasuke could speak Japanese and ordered Valignano to leave Yasuke in his care when the Jesuit prepared to leave again.  
U. Yasuke, thus, became a permanent fixture in Nobunaga’s retinue, his size and strength acting as a deterrent to assassination, not to mention a flavor of exoticism to accompany the warlord’s other Western possessions.  
15234

Your eye produces a clear fluid called aqueous humor in the chamber at the front of the eye and this fluid nourishes nearby tissues and helps to maintain proper pressure balance within the eye.  
Q. As the normal level of fluid builds up, it can trigger an increase of pressure within the eye and this condition, called high IOP, can lead to open-angle glaucoma.   
R. For reasons that are not fully understood, the drainage canal can become clogged over time.  
S. In a healthy eye, it flows through a tiny drain called the trabecular meshwork in the front of the eye.  
T. Open-angle glaucoma represents at least 90% of all glaucoma cases - making it the most common form of the disease.  
U. Other times, your eye can produce too much fluid, which can result in elevated intraocular pressure (IOP).    
42153

In 1974, Congress passed the Safe Drinking Water Act.  
Q. The MCLG for benzene is zero.   
R. These non-enforceable health goals, based solely on possible health risks and exposure over a lifetime with an adequate margin of safety, are called maximum contaminant level goals (MCLG).  
S. This law requires the EPA to determine the level of contaminants in drinking water at which no adverse health effects are likely to occur.  
T. The EPA has set this level of protection for benzene based on the best available science to prevent potential health problems.  
U. Contaminants are any physical, chemical, biological or radiological substances or matter in water.  
42153

Though it is a remarkable piece of rhetoric, inspiring his men to an unexpected victory at the Battle of Agincourt, the attentive reader or playgoer will notice that Henry's speech is transparently untrue. 
Q. His speech is a means to that end — he is rallying his troops because he needs them to make himself famous and he is lying to them even as he asks them to give up their lives on his behalf.  
R. After all, the play is called Henry V for a reason — because it is Henry, and Henry alone, who is remembered for the victory at Agincourt.   
S. Henry readily admits, “...if it be a sin to covet honour,/I am the most offending soul alive.”   
T. They are fighting for Henry’s glory, not their own.   
U. The men that make up his “band of brothers” are almost all unnamed in the play and have been forgotten by history.   
51432

Invasive species are a major concern for the ecology of sand dunes.  
Q. Because they are not native to the region, they often have no natural predators or other controls.   
R. As they did not evolve along with all the other species in the area, they provide limited habitat values.   
S. Scotch Broom and European Beachgrass are two common examples.   
T. Some invasive species are so well-established that their eradication is not feasible without substantial cost and effort.  
U. Therefore, invasive species can create dense monocultures that crowd out other species.  
24153

Route 66's decline began around the same time On the Road was published.  
Q. To keep up with growing traffic demands, pieces of Route 66 were slowly upgraded to, replaced by or became supplementary to new four-lane highways.   
R. Route 66's last stretch in Arizona was decommissioned when I-40 was completed in 1984 and, the following year, the entire route was decommissioned.  
S. Inspired by the German autobahn he had seen during World War II, Eisenhower sought to make the highways more efficient.   
T. In 1956 President Eisenhower enacted the Federal Aid Highway Act.   
U. By the 1970s, the route was largely replaced by five different interstates including Interstate 40, serving most of the Southwest, which replaced the longest portion of the route.   
35214

What harm can having too little of a vitamin do?  
Q. This is because the human body needs vitamin B12 to make red blood cells, nerves, DNA, and to carry out other functions.   
R. Over the course of two months, a 62-year-old man developed numbness and a “pins and needles” sensation in his hands, had trouble walking, experienced severe joint pain, and became progressively short of breath. 
S. The average adult should get 2.4 micrograms a day, but, like most vitamins, B12 can’t be made by the body: it must be gotten from food or supplements.  
T. The cause was a lack of vitamin B12 in his bloodstream, according to a case report from Harvard-affiliated Massachusetts General Hospital published in The New England Journal of Medicine.   
U. It could have been worse—a severe vitamin B12 deficiency can lead to deep depression, paranoia and delusions, memory loss, loss of taste and smell, and more.  
41523

The name "Anasazi" has come to mean "ancient people," although the word itself is Navajo, meaning "enemy ancestors."  
Q. Subsequently some archaeologists who would try to change the term have worried that because the Pueblos speak different languages, there are different words for "ancestor," and using one might be offensive to people speaking other languages.  
R. Wetherill knew and worked with Navajos and understood what the word meant.  
S. The term was first applied to ruins of the Mesa Verde by Richard Wetherill, a rancher and trader who, in 1888-1889, was the first Anglo-American to explore the sites in that area.  
T. The name was further sanctioned in archaeology when it was adopted by Alfred V. Kidder, the acknowledged dean of Southwestern Archaeology.   
U. Kidder felt that is was less cumbersome than a more technical term he might have used.  
52134

On Christmas Eve, many German soldiers put up Christmas trees, decorated with candles, on the parapets of their trenches.  
Q. Instead of trickery, however, the British soldiers heard many of the Germans celebrating.   
R. Hundreds of Christmas trees lighted the German trenches and although British soldiers could see the lights, it took them a few minutes to figure out what they were from.  
S. British soldiers were ordered not to fire but to watch them closely.  
T. Indeed, occasionally the guttural tones of a German were to be heard shouting out lustily, 'A happy Christmas to you Englishmen!'  
U. Time and again during the course of that day, the Eve of Christmas, the sounds of singing and merry-making wafted toward the English.   
31254

Like many Germans involved in efforts to kill Hitler, Mr. von Kleist was a soldier — a lieutenant in the German Army — but his family had long been active in the German resistance.  
Q. When he asked his father for advice, “He got up from his chair, went to the window, looked out of the window for a moment, and then he turned and said: ‘Yes, you have to do that because a man who doesn’t take such a chance will never be happy again in his life.’ ”   
R. In January 1944, he was 22 and recuperating in Berlin from wounds he suffered in combat when he was approached by Col. Claus von Stauffenberg to join an assassination plot. 
S. At the time, Lieutenant von Kleist led a unit that was scheduled to meet with Hitler to show him new Army uniforms.   
T. Lieutenant von Kleist agreed to go through with the plan, but Hitler canceled at the last moment — he frequently changed his schedule late in the war — and Colonel von Stauffenberg and others began devising a new plan.   
U. Colonel von Stauffenberg asked Lieutenant von Kleist to take along hidden explosives, which he would then detonate at the meeting, killing Hitler and himself.                
41253

When most of us think about evolution, we tend to think in terms of simple organisms evolving into more complex ones.  
Q. It's no longer believed that humans are at the top of the evolutionary ladder, but evolution does tend to drive organisms towards greater complexity, does it not?  
R. Greater complexity is sometimes a consequence of evolution, but simplification can also, therefore, be a winning strategy -- it all depends on the environment.   
S. Well, this is not always so.   
T. In fact, those organisms that leave the most offspring behind, simple or complex, seem to do best.  
U. Simple chemical reactions evolved into simple cells, which later evolved into more complex organisms, and so on all the way up to humans.   
25341

After more than 2,000 years of architectural use, the arch continues to feature prominently in bridge designs and with good reason: its semicircular structure elegantly distributes compression through its entire form and diverts weight onto its two abutments, the components of the bridge that directly take on pressure. 
Q. The natural curve of the arch and its ability to dissipate the force outward greatly reduces the effects of tension on the underside of the arch.  
R. The greater the degree of curvature (the larger the semicircle of the arch), the greater the effects of tension on the underside of the bridge.   
S. Tensional force in arch bridges, on the other hand, is virtually negligible.   
T. But as with beams and trusses, even the mighty arch can't outrun physics forever.   
U. Build a big enough arch, and tension will eventually overtake the support structure's natural strength.  
24135

In 1881 the American inventor, Hiram Maxim, visited the Paris Electrical Exhibition and met a man who told him: "If you want to make a lot of money, invent something that will enable these Europeans to cut each other's throats with greater facility." 
Q. Maxim used the energy of each bullet's recoil force to eject the spent cartridge and insert the next bullet.   
R. Trials showed that the machine-gun could fire 500 rounds per minute and therefore had the firepower of about 100 rifles.  
S. In 1885 he was able to demonstrate the world's first automatic portable machine-gun to the British Army.  
T. Maxim moved to London and over the next few years worked on producing an effective machine-gun.   
U. The Maxim Machine-Gun would therefore fire until the entire belt of bullets was used up.   
35214

In the fall of 1918, the Great War in Europe was winding down and peace was on the horizon.  
Q. The Americans had joined in the fight, bringing the Allies closer to victory against the Germans.  
R. Then, however, in pockets across the globe, something erupted that, at first, seemed as benign as the common cold, yet the influenza of that season was far worse than a cold.   
S. The numbers for the US were even worse, in that the flu infected 28% of all Americans with an estimated 675,000 Americans dying of influenza during the pandemic - ten times as many as in the world war.   
T. Deep within the trenches these men had lived through some of the most brutal conditions of life, and it seemed that conditions could not become any worse.   
U. In the two years that this scourge ravaged the earth, a fifth of the world's population was infected, with the flu being most deadly for people ages 20 to 40.   
13524

During the Cuban Missile Crisis, leaders of the U.S. and the Soviet Union engaged in a tense, 13-day political and military standoff in October 1962 over the installation of nuclear-armed Soviet missiles on Cuba, just 90 miles from U.S. shores.  
Q. Kennedy also secretly agreed to remove U.S. missiles from Turkey.  
R. He further explained his decision to enact a naval blockade around Cuba and made it clear the U.S. was prepared to use military force, if necessary, to neutralize this perceived threat to national security.   
S. In a TV address on October 22, 1962, President John Kennedy (1917-63) notified Americans about the presence of the missiles.  
T. However, disaster was avoided when the U.S. agreed to Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev's (1894-1971) offer to remove the Cuban missiles in exchange for the U.S. promising not to invade Cuba.  
U. Following this news, many people feared the world was on the brink of nuclear war.   
52143

New York City Mayor Fiorello LaGuardia, for whom a famous New York airport is named, was popular for riding in fire trucks with firefighters, joining police officers on their beats and taking orphaned children to baseball games.  
Q. A short time later, an old woman dressed in threadbare clothing stood before him, on a charge of stealing a loaf of bread, but she explained that her daughter’s husband had run out on the family, her daughter was sick and that her two grandchildren had nothing to eat.    
R. LaGuardia found her guilty but then took out a ten dollar bill from his wallet and gave it to the bailiff to pay the woman's fine.  
S. He then looked around the crowded, bustling court room and fined everyone there 50 cents for living in a city in which a grandmother had to steal a loaf of bread to feed her grandchildren (he gave the fine to the woman).   
T. The shopkeeper felt sorry for the woman but told the Mayor that he was in a bad neighborhood and that this woman needed to be punished to set an example for everyone else.   
U. One chilling night in January, 1935, during the depths of the Great Depression, Mayor LaGuardia arrived at a night court in one of the poorest areas in the city and told the judge to take the night off so he could preside over the court.  
24531

After death, several things can happen to the body.  
Q. Known informally as Lucy and formally as AL-288-1 (Afar Locality #288), she was found in a sedimentary layer that eventually was dated at 3.5 MaBP. 
R. This "something" turned out to be the exposed portion of a hominid arm bone.   
S. Johanson, along with colleague Tom Gray, had been mapping another locality at the Afar site, but, feeling "lucky," Johanson took a short detour into another area later mapped as locality 288 and "noticed something lying on the ground partway up the slope."  
T. From the perspective of the physical anthropologist, the best thing that can happen is that the body lies in an area where it will be covered quickly by sediment.    
U. Such must have been the case with the 40-percent-complete skeleton found by Dr. Johanson.   
35412

In the story, the old man hides light in a box because he's afraid to see whether or not his daughter is ugly.  
Q. When the old man finally opens the box containing the light, Raven grabs it and flies out of the house---causing light to spread throughout the world and revealing that the old man's daughter is as beautiful as the fronds of a hemlock tree.  
R. In a ploy to steal the light, Raven shrinks himself to become a hemlock seed in a basket of drinking water so that the daughter swallows him.   
S. Soon Raven is reborn from her as a raven/human child.   
T. As Raven flies away, Eagle sees him and tries to steal the light, causing Raven to drop some of it, which becomes the Moon and the stars.  
U. The old man accepts him as a grandson, and soon Raven begins begging that he open his various boxes, one after another, each time pleading and crying until the old man yields.  
41253

Levassor and his partner Panhard operated one of the largest machine shops in Paris in 1887, when a Belgian engineer named Edouard Sarazin convinced Levassor to manufacture a new high-speed engine for the German automaker Daimler, for which Sarazin had obtained the French patent rights. 
Q. In 1889, visitors to the Paris exposition celebrating the 100th anniversary of the French Revolution were able to admire not only Gustave Eiffel's now-famous tower, but also a Daimler-produced automobile with one of the new Panhard et Levassor-constructed engines.   
R. In the years to come, this arrangement, known as the Systeme Panhard, would become the model for all automobiles.  
S. When Sarazin died later that year, the rights passed to his widow, Louise.  
T. The year after the opening of the exposition, Levassor married Louise Sarazin.   
U. By 1891, Levassor had built a drastically different automobile, placing the engine vertically in front of the chassis rather than underneath or behind the driver--a radical departure from the carriage-influenced design of earlier vehicles--and put in a mechanical transmission that the driver engaged with a clutch, allowing him to travel at different speeds.   
25134

The dawn that followed the dark and frigid night of December 15, 1944 was foggy, dreary, and foreboding to the troops of the VIII Corps in their positions along the front line between Echternach and just south of Konschau in Belgium, a distance of approximately 75 miles, facing the defensive structures the Germans called the Siegfried Line.   
Q. It had been a quiet sector since early October, and the American front was thinly held, with three infantry divisions on the line and an armored division in reserve.   
R. Indeed there was no strong or aggressive force facing them, at least in the supposedly trained judgment of unit, divisional, and corps intelligence.   
S. But it would have been "thinly held" if it had had twice those troops, consisting as it did of widely separated strong points connected generally by a few motorized patrols.  
T. However the risk must have been considered extremely slight, for commanders all the way down the line were urged to make their men comfortable for the hard winter ahead, and to take measures to reduce the serious problem of trench foot, a disabling disorder resulting from repeatedly wet feet in very cold wet weather.         
U. They were consequently taking what General Eisenhower described as a "calculated risk" when he had depleted VIII Corps' strength by numerous units to assist Field Marshal Montgomery's planned attack in the north.  
13254

The Bohr Model is probably familiar as the "planetary model" of the atom and is used as a symbol for atomic energy (a bit of a misnomer, since the energy in "atomic energy" is actually the energy of the nucleus, rather than the entire atom). 
Q. This similarity between a planetary model and the Bohr Model of the atom ultimately arises because the attractive gravitational force in a solar system and the attractive Coulomb (electrical) force between the positively charged nucleus and the negatively charged electrons in an atom are mathematically of the same form. 
R. The form is the same, but the intrinsic strength of the Coulomb interaction is much larger than that of the gravitational interaction. 
S. Gravitation is always, however, attractive in our present Universe. 
T. In addition, there are positive and negative electrical charges so the Coulomb interaction can be either attractive or repulsive.  
U. In the Bohr Model the neutrons and protons occupy a dense central region called the nucleus, and the electrons orbit the nucleus much like planets orbiting the Sun (but the orbits are not confined to a plane as is approximately true in the Solar System). 
23541

Amenhotep IV changed his name to Akhenaton, meaning "the Servant of Aten" early in his reign.  
Q. At first he attempted to place temples for Aten next to the temples for other gods.  
R. Eventually he closed all the other temples and took their revenues.  
S. But fairly early in his reign he introduced a monotheistic worship of Aten, the Sun God.  
T. Akhenaton started his reign as most Egyptian kings.  
U. Ultimately, Akhenaton placed himself as the intermediary between Aten and the people, helping eliminate the need for the priesthood.  
34215

Water pollution caused by fecal contamination is a serious problem due to the potential for contracting diseases from pathogens (disease causing organisms).  
Q. Coliforms are relatively easy to identify, are usually present in larger numbers than more dangerous pathogens, and respond to the environment, wastewater treatment, and water treatment similarly to many pathogens.  
R. Frequently, concentrations of pathogens from fecal contamination are small, and the number of different possible pathogens is large, so it is not practical to test for pathogens in every water sample collected.  
S. As a result, testing for coliform bacteria can be a reasonable indication of whether other pathogenic bacteria are present. 
T. Coliforms come from the same sources as pathogenic organisms. 
U. Instead, the presence of pathogens is determined with indirect evidence by testing for an "indicator" organism such as coliform bacteria. 
41532

Our earliest extant source and the only one who can claim to have known Socrates in his early years is the playwright Aristophanes.  
Q. In the play, the character Socrates heads a Think-o-Rama in which young men study the natural world, from insects to stars.  
R. The actor wearing the mask of Socrates also makes fun of the traditional gods of Athens and gives naturalistic explanations of phenomena Athenians viewed as divinely directed.  
S. These young men also study slick argumentative techniques, lacking all respect for the Athenian sense of propriety.  
T. Worst of all, he teaches dishonest techniques for avoiding repayment of debt and encourages young men to beat their parents into submission. 
U. His comedy, Clouds, was produced in 423 when the other two writers of our extant sources, Xenophon and Plato, were infants.  
24351

The data collected from the tags showed that sunfish spend 50 per cent of their time in the top 10 meters of the ocean.  
Q. They mostly feed on zooplankton, an extremely diverse group of simple, slow-moving creatures that includes jellyfish and related animals, which stay close to the surface. 
R. This time is probably spent basking, lying on their side and soaking up heat from the sun. 
S. They generally go to depths of 90 to 170 meters, though the deepest observed dive reached 644 meters. 
T. The rest of the time is spent diving, which they do on average 40 times a day - though hardly ever at night.  
U. This is by no means as deep as other fish go, but then the sunfish don't need to plunge to the abyssal depths.  
51324

The basic premise that the highest truth, or first principle, or Tao, is not expressible in words or conceivable through logical thought, is common to both Taoism and Zen.  
Q. However, the enlightened Taoist sage is considered to have gained some special knowledge, and thus becomes somehow removed from the world.  
R. This is obviously not Taoistic quietism (wu-wei) but action where words will not do and the effect is to force the student back into his own mind, rather than to foster a dependence on teachers. 
S. The Zen Master gains nothing other than the realization that there is nothing to gain, and is thus more than ever in the world. 
T. Furthermore, whereas Lao-tzu poetically says "The Tao that can be named is not the real Tao," the Zen Master takes this for granted and if questioned on the subject he might scream "kwatz!" or strike the disciple.  
U. Both hold, moreover, that an intuitive understanding of the first principle is possible, and this is called enlightenment.  
25341

Ceratopsians were slow-moving plant eaters that probably lived together in large herds--hardly the kind of animals you'd associate with deadly conflict.  
Q. But upon closer examination, the frills are typically too thin to provide much protection. 
R. The huge bony collars, or frills, around the animals' heads seemed to protect their necks. 
S. For many years, paleontologists thought these animals used their horns and spikes to fight predators like T. rex.  
T. In much the same way, the elaborate skulls of the horned dinosaurs may have been for display, not defense. 
U. And among modern animals from beetles to bison, horns are almost always used to attract mates, compete with rivals or allow animals of the same species to recognize each other.  
32154

Not only was its girth tremendous, its height was towering.  
Q. If we think symbolically, as the ancient Celts were apt to do, we can also liken our own spiritual-growth with that of the ash.  
R. Some ash trees are known to soar over 200 feet tall and such incredible growth owes credit to a fantastic root system. 
S. For greater (higher) attainment, the more we need to stay grounded (well rooted) 
T. To the Celts he ash spoke to us of growth, expansion, and a higher perspective.  
U. Indeed, it's mass, height, and deeply embedded roots became metaphorical to the ancient Celts. 
41532

By the 1800s, chess was essentially the same game we play today, and it is at this time that the concept of a world chess champion began to enter the consciousness of the chess playing public.  
Q. In 1843, however, Englishman Howard Staunton - the namesake for the now famous Staunton pieces - played two matches with Pierre Saint-Amant, the leading French player of the time.  
R. But nobody had made the claim that the match was for the world championship, and as such, it was a shaky title, at best. 
S. Staunton emerged victorious, and some observers began to consider the idea that Staunton might be the best player in the world: a world champion, perhaps.   
T. This lead, therefore, to London 1851 - the first international chess tournament ever held - which was Staunton’s idea: the event being designed to gather all of the best players in Europe.  
U. The French dominated chess in the 18th century and into the early 19th, with players like Philidor and La Bourdonnais having virtually no equals up until at least the early 1840s. 
24351

The Edelweiss flower has since time immemorial been valued as medicine against the ailments of men and their beasts, as a powerful Talisman to ward off evil and, of course, as the "Ultimate Love Charm" of the mountains. 
Q. The danger-wrought exercise of collecting such a bouquet proved in those days that the suitor was brave, able-bodied and serious in his intentions.  
R. Love struck young men would try to endear themselves by collecting Edelweiss from those hard to access crags and ledges in the High Alps of Europe. 
S. During these quests many died from falls, or succumbed to exposure, insufficiently prepared for sudden weather changes. 
T. That is one of the reasons why men in some parts of Europe still decorate themselves with this bloom and wear it like a medal of honor.  
U. This was a mixing of flowers and machismo rarely seen in western culture. 
31254

Salvador Allende's left-wing politics were informed by the dire poverty experienced by most Chilean citizens that he witnessed as a doctor and as a politician.  
Q. Examples included social security rights for all workers, land redistribution, rent reductions, improved health care facilities, improved housing and sanitation, free milk for nursing mothers and school children, anti-illiteracy campaigns, the raising of the minimum wage, and the granting of three thousand scholarships for the marginalized Mapuches Indian community.  
R. Such policies were of deep concern to US corporations such as Kennecott, Anaconda, PepsiCo, and International Telephone and Telegraph and such corporations played a major role in lobbying the US government to implement measures aimed at eliminating the freely elected government of Chile.  
S. Positive results from such initiatives included an increase in school enrollments and a reduction of nearly 20 per cent in malnutrition rates among the very young.  
T. Upon securing the Presidency, Allende immediately set out to implement major social reforms.  
U. In order to finance such programs, Allende embarked on an ambitious program encompassing the accelerated nationalization and expropriation of industries.  
25314

Brando had a rare gift in that he could turn even a basic line of dialogue, or the most mundane action, into an unforgettable moment.  
Q. Start off with something fitted, but not skin tight — you shouldn’t look like you’re wearing a hand-me-down from grade school.  
R. Next, make sure the sleeves hit mid-bicep, anything longer than that will look sloppy, and anything shorter will make you look like a frat boy desperately trying to show off his guns.  
S. And here we have Brando working that same magic, not on a script, but on the most fundamental garment of the American style canon: the plain white T-shirt.  
T. Of course you don’t want to look like a slob, so double check for any stains before tossing it on and, to finish it all off, go ahead and try out your signature stare, although to pull that one off, you might need to share in Brando’s gene pool. 
U. The more that an outfit has going on, the easier it is to get noticed, but to turn an ordinary undershirt into something extraordinary you’ll need to take a few notes from the brooding actor.  
34152

October 1st, 1949 was the first occasion on which Mao waved to thousands in the Square; this was to celebrate the founding of the People's Republic and the final demise of the Nationalists under Chiang Kai-shek.  
Q. Few could understand his accent but they could certainly celebrate what he offered, and what he delivered for the next ten years.  
R. If numbers increased, the background of the marchers had by now certainly diminished and had become more uniform. 
S. In the late 1960s, millions marched through the Square which, though now enlarged, could not lake the numbers now involved in National Day parades.  
T. By October 1st, 1959, the thousands had increased to hundreds of thousands and the enthusiasm remained.  
U. The next few years would be very different as famine struck three years running, as ideological disputes with the Soviet Union led to fighting along the Amur River and as China felt threatened by the war in Vietnam.  
15423

Fioravanti continued his work in Rome and in Bologna, but an event occurred which would change his life forever, derailing his Italian career and playing a part in his eventual decision to relocate to Russia.  
Q. The shocked Italian was promptly arrested and relieved of all his previous privileges and titles, even though the accusations would eventually prove false.  
R. Fioravanti’s work in Moscow began with removing the remains of the previous Dormition Cathedral.  
S. It was at this pivotal moment, however, in 1474 that he met the Russian ambassador Semyon Tolbuzin, who had been sent to Italy to search for architects to work in Moscow. 
T. In June of 1473, Fioravanti was unexpectedly accused of counterfeiting false coins.  
U. The meeting between Fioravanti and Tolbuzin most likely occurred in Rome, and after signing a contract in 1475, the 60 year old architect left for the Principality of Moscow with his son Andrey and his servant Pietro.  
25314

At the end of the 16th Century, Persia's Shah Abbas had the largest cavalry in the world.  
Q. A wave of interest in all things Persian passed through Western Europe and Persian style shoes were enthusiastically adopted by aristocrats, who sought to give their appearance a virile, masculine edge that, it suddenly seemed, only heeled shoes could supply. 
R. As the wearing of heels filtered into the lower ranks of society, the aristocracy responded by dramatically increasing the height of their shoes - and the high heel was born. 
S. He was keen to forge links with rulers in Western Europe to help him defeat his great enemy, the Ottoman Empire. 
T. In the muddy, rutted streets of 17th Century Europe, these new shoes had no utility value whatsoever - but that was the point: one of the best ways that status can be conveyed is through impracticality. 
U. So in 1599, Abbas sent the first Persian diplomatic mission to Europe - it called on the courts of Russia, Germany and Spain. 
34152

The victory over Babylonia expressed all the facets of the policy of conciliation which Cyrus had followed until then.  
Q. Indeed, Cyrus had no thought of forcing conquered people into a single mold, and had the wisdom to merely remove the often corrupt leadership of a conquered territory, replacing it with his 'tolerant' dictatorship. 
R. He presented himself not as a conqueror, but as a benevolent and forgiving liberator of a foreign people. 
S. This liberating step was in line with his policy to bring peace to mankind through the toleration of numerous national identities within a Persian empire. 
T. He not only removed corrupt leaders and left familiar institutions unchanged, but he also freed peoples conquered by others, as evidenced in 539 BCE, when he allowed more than 40,000 Jews to leave Babylon and return to Palestine. 
U. This step also showed a new wind was blowing from the east, carrying away the cries and humility of defeated and murdered victims, extinguishing the fires of sacked cities, and liberating nations from slavery. 
21435

We need marine algae a whole lot more than they need us.  
Q. Trees and other land plants are very important, no doubt about it.  
R. Think about it, 70 to 80 percent of all the oxygen we breathe comes from algae!  
S. Without them we would really be sucking wind, but not for long!  
T. But for pure survival, we couldn’t make it without algae. 
U. At this point, you may be saying, “Yo! What about the trees and other land plants?”  
41253

Tim Beatley has long been a leader in advocating for the "greening" of cities.  
Q. While these are important aspects of re-imagining urban living, they are not enough, says Beatley. 
R. But too often, he notes, urban greening efforts focus on everything except nature.  
S. And any vision of a sustainable urban future must place its focus squarely on nature, on the presence, conservation, and celebration of the actual green features and natural life forms. 
T. Instead, elements such as public transit, renewable energy production, and energy efficient building systems are emphasized.  
U. We must remember that human beings have an innate need to connect with the natural world (the biophilia hypothesis).  
31524

In mid-19th century America, most abolitionists were willing to move slowly toward their goal of ending slavery.  
Q. John Brown saw the cause in a different light. 
R. Brown was unrepentant at trial, stating: "Now, if it is deemed necessary that I should forfeit my life for the furtherance of the ends of justice, and mingle my blood further with the blood of my children and with the blood of millions in this slave country whose rights are disregarded by wicked, cruel, and unjust enactments, I submit; so let it be done." 
S. After U.S. Marines (commanded by Robert E. Lee) stormed the armory, a wounded Brown was captured. 
T. He thought that "slavery, throughout its entire existence in the United States, is none other than the most barbarous, unprovoked and unjustifiable war of one portion of its citizens against another portion," and he was willing to pursue just about any means at his disposal to stop the practice. 
U. On October 16, 1859, Brown, hoping to obtain weapons for a slave uprising, led a raid on the federal arsenal in Harpers Ferry, Virginia (now West Virginia), but Brown and his men were surrounded before they could escape. 
15423

By the age of 33 Ghazali was appointed a professor in Baghdad, where he became recognized as an authority on canon law.  
Q. His greatest work of synthesis was in The Revivification of the Religious Sciences, which also argues that only the Sufi emphasis on inner devotion can fulfill the strict demands of the Qur’an.  
R. In spite of his success, Ghazali entered a period of spiritual crisis.  
S. Therefore, in 1095 Ghazali became a wandering ascetic, returning to the Sufism of his youth, spending 11 years in meditation and retirement, until a Sultan persuaded him to teach again.  
T. As he wrote in his autobiography: “I examined my motives in my work of teaching, and realized that it was not a pure desire for the things of God, but that the impulse moving me was the desire for an influential position and public recognition."  
U. In the public teachings and writings which followed his retirement, Ghazali set forth a synthesis of orthodox theology and mysticism.  
51324

Perhaps Jeff Koons' most famous work of art is his ‘balloon dog,’ a giant polished steel structure which looks like a long inflated balloon twisted and shaped into the image of a dog. 
Q. The Balloon Dog is, in fact, ‘eternally optimistic’ while simultaneously creating a dialogue between its interior and exterior surroundings through its reflective surfaces. 
R. Indeed, he reveals that the design inspiration for his inflatable pieces stems from the human body and how a breath of air can become a symbol of optimism.  
S. Jeff Koons has, in fact, been into ‘inflatable’ art since the beginning of his career as an artist. 
T. The huge reflective surfaces give the dog a light, airy balloon feel, while, in reality, the sculpture weighs an immense amount. 
U. He often speaks about the concept of inflatable objects and their symbolic meaning for life itself. 
43152

While A Love Supreme is a recognized musical masterpiece, it had enormous personal significance for Coltrane. 
Q. In the spring of 1957, his dependence on drugs and alcohol lost him one of the best jobs in jazz. 
R. Alternately catatonic and brilliant, Coltrane's behavior and playing became increasingly erratic and Davis fired him after a live show that April. 
S. Soon after, Coltrane resolved to clean up his act. 
T. He was playing sax and touring with Miles Davis' popular group when he became unreliable and strung out. 
U. He would later write, in the 1964 liner notes to A Love Supreme, "In the year of 1957, I experienced, by the grace of God, a spiritual awakening, which was to lead me to a richer, fuller, more productive life." 
13425

In one of the standard methods of primitive potters, rings or coils of clay are built up from a circular base. 
Q. It is not known when or where the potter's wheel was introduced. 
R. When a pot is built up from the base by hand, it is impossible that it will be perfectly round. 
S. The walls of the pot are then smoothed and thinned (by simultaneous pressure on the inner and outer surfaces) before being fired in a bread oven or in the most elementary of kilns - a hole in the ground, above which a bonfire is lit. 
T. The solution to this problem is the potter's wheel, which has been a crucial factor in the history of ceramics. 
U. Indeed it is likely that it developed very gradually, from a platform on which the potter turns the pot before shaping another side (thus avoiding having to walk around it). 
42135

In 1381, some 35 years after the Black Death had swept through Europe decimating over one third of the population, there was a shortage of people left to work the land.   
Q. In addition to this, extra revenue was required to support a long and drawn out war with the French, and so a poll tax was introduced. 
R. Recognizing the power of ‘supply and demand’, the remaining peasants began to re-evaluate their worth and subsequently demanded higher wages and better working conditions. 
S. Not surprisingly the government of the day, comprised mainly of the land-owning Bishops and Lords, passed a law to limit any such wage rise.  
T. Things appear to have come to a head when in May 1381 a tax collector arrived in the Essex village of Fobbing to find out why the people there had not paid their poll tax and the villagers promptly threw him out 
U. It was the third time in four years that such a tax had been applied and this crippling tax meant that everyone over the age of 15 had to pay one shilling - a significant amount to the average farm laborer!  
31254

Bubble wrap was originally designed to be used as wallpaper. 
Q. However, this wallpaper idea didn’t sell too well. 
R. The two were not, however, trying to make a product to be used as packaging material. 
S. It was invented by two engineers: Al Fielding and Swiss inventor Marc Chavannes, in Hawthorne, N.J. in 1957. 
T. They started out by sealing two shower curtains together in such a way that it would capture air bubbles which would make the textured appearance for their wallpaper.  
U. Rather, they were trying to create a textured wallpaper. 
52143

The Japanese art of Ukiyo-e developed in the city of Edo (now Tokyo) during the Tokugawa or Edo Period (1615-1868). 
Q. Thus, with their political power effectively removed, the merchant class turned to art and culture as arenas in which they could participate on an equal basis with the elite upper classes (warriors, farmers, and artisans). 
R. Although the cultural status of Ukiyo-e was initially considered "low" art, by and for the non-elite classes, its artistic and technical caliber is consistently remarkable.  
S. It was, indeed, the collaboration among the merchants, artists, publishers, and townspeople of Edo that gave Ukiyo-e its unique voice. 
T. The social hierarchy of the day, officially established by shogun rulers, placed the merchants, the wealthiest segment of the population, at the lower end of the scale. 
U. In turn, Ukiyo-e provided these groups with a means of attaining cultural status outside the sanctioned realms of shogunate, temple, and court. 
25314

Recently more research has focused on the relationship between color and psychological functioning. 
Q. Two further experiments establish the link between red and avoidance motivation as indicated by behavioral (i.e., task choice) and psychophysiological (i.e., cortical activation) measures.    
R. Four experiments, in fact, demonstrate that the brief perception of red prior to an important test (e.g., an IQ test) impairs performance, and this effect appears to take place outside of participants' conscious awareness.   
S. Red impairs performance on achievement tasks, because red is associated with the danger of failure in achievement contexts and evokes avoidance motivation.   
T. All of these findings suggest that care must be taken in how red is used in achievement contexts and illustrate how color can act as a subtle environmental cue that has important influences on behavior.  
U. Indeed, startling findings occurred in regard to the relationship between red and performance attainment.  
43251

Why do animals grieve and why do we see grief in different species of animals?  
Q. Whatever its value, grief is the price of commitment, that wellspring of both happiness and sorrow. 
R. It's been suggested that grief reactions may allow for the reshuffling of status relationships, the filling of a reproductive vacancy left by the deceased, or for fostering continuity of the group.  
S. Whatever the reasons, it's likely that grief evolved to serve different functions in different species. 
T. Some further theorize that perhaps mourning strengthens social bonds among the survivors who band together to pay their last respects.  
U. This may enhance group cohesion at a time when it's likely to be weakened.  
51423

On January 14, 1967, counterculture leaders called for a “human be-in” in San Francisco, California.  
Q. The Summer of Love boasted music festivals, poetry readings, speeches, and even theater.  
R. Thousands of people answered the call, gathering in Golden Gate Park to promote peace, happiness, and love.  
S. For the most part, the Summer of Love proved successful in its ability to spread the counterculture message, but by the fall of 1967, increased incidents of crime and drug abuse by hippies gathered in Haight-Ashbury signaled a change in the movement.  
T. The Haight-Ashbury neighborhood of San Francisco quickly became the gathering place and home for many displaced youth who came to celebrate the counterculture event.  
U. During the spring, more disillusioned youth traveled to San Francisco upon hearing a declaration that the summer of 1967 would be the “Summer of Love.”  
41532

I like horses in artwork.    
Q. For example, it takes you from a place of turmoil and conflict to your own hearth.   
R. So, symbolically, the horse often represents what gets you from one (rotten) place to another (better) place.    
S. One reason is that, to me, the horse is a symbol of transition.  
T. Or, it leads you into and out of battle; it helps you escape, engage in some adventure or find new ways.   
U. By transition, I mean transition within our inner reality as well as transition in our external reality.  
43152

‘Decay’ might be a somewhat misleading term as it is used in regard to subatomic particles.   
Q. This then gives you a more stable Nitrogen atom (the difference between types of atoms depends on the number of protons in the nucleus - gain a proton and you become something else).  
R. Atoms experience this type of change due to their ‘instability’ and become more ‘stable’ afterwards.    
S. For instance, C14 has 6 protons and 8 neutrons and this is an unstable state for Carbon.   
T. So, poof, a neutron spontaneously can change to a proton and now you get 7 neutrons and 7 protons.   
U. If we are talking about beta decay, for instance, this simply describes a process in which an atom with an overabundance of neutrons experiences the spontaneous change of a neutron into a proton, creating another element completely while also discharging a fast moving electron (a beta particle).  
52341

The artists of the Romantic Movement could see science coming, and it wasn’t pretty.   
Q. There was the outer world (stuff to be perceived, measured and used) and the inner world (perception, thought and emotional responses).    
R. Science seemed to bring an ideology along with it (a technological justification of the worst forms of capitalism) and, schematically, it divided the world into two.   
S. The Romantics, however, believed the mind and body to be a part of nature and connected to nature.   
T. Science, therefore, meant our minds were separate from nature and were to be used to control nature, as if we were secular wizards.   
U. Friedrich Schelling went so far as to say that nature was visible spirit and spirit was invisible nature. 
21435

Minhwa is a traditional Korean art form.  
Q. These are insights that would never have been publicly promulgated through the media of the dominant culture.  
R. Minhwa is basically, therefore, the raw, insightful and passionate ‘real’ people (magpies)attacking the established and respected hacks (tigers) in power who control things through connections, quid pro quo arrangements and whatever other forms of shadiness they can think of to try to seem relevant and important.  
S. Minhwa has represented the experiences and desires of the common people, revealing insights only the people could know about life and society.  
T. Therefore the tigers aren’t really tigers in Minhwa, they are buffoons just as the aristocracy and power-brokers were, or have been, overwhelmingly, buffoons.  
U. Because it is from the relatively powerless common people, there is often sarcasm and humor in Minhwa, and perhaps some secret social symbolism and criticism, as with magpies mocking vicious and powerful tigers who suddenly look stupid and ridiculous. 
24153

While over one million people starved to death in Ireland from 1845 - 1850, boatloads of grain regularly arrived from Ireland, through the port of Liverpool, to feed the citizens of England.   
Q. The Irish people had been colonized by the English and most Irish worked for various wealthy (mostly English) landlords.   
R. Thus, the tenant farmers who were dependent on the potato starved while the wealthy landowners reaped tremendous profits from the Irish grain they exported.   
S. These landlords never even considered stopping the transport of food from Ireland to England so that the Irish themselves might be saved while the potato crop was decimated by a fungus.   
T. Yet, a famine is when there is no food - there was an overabundance of food…the Irish just weren’t allowed to eat it.  
U. This was free market capitalism at its most transparently inhumane, but it has come down to us through history whitewashed as the potato ‘famine’.  
13254
